US exceptionalism is not going away.
>> There is a awful amount of good news
already priced in.
>> Investors [music]
have been very cautious about missing
this.
>> The earnings power are there. Estimates
for cyclical earnings are most likely
too high. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with [music] Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoar Dern.
Live from the nation's capital this
morning.
>> Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday at fresh records,
investors piling into equities sending
the S&P 500 to all-time highs as TSMC's
positive outlook is reinforcing
confidence in AI chip [music] demand and
the US and Iran considering a two-week
ceasefire extension. Stocks holding
steady, Bramo, so far this morning.
>> Yeah, and frankly, the rally that we
have seen is just tremendous. [music]
The Spoke Investment Group came out with
a statistic that I thought was
absolutely fantastic. Since 1928,
this is the first time that the S&P 500
has made an [music] all a new all-time
high in 11 days or fewer after falling 5
to 10%. Just to give you a sense of how
big this rally has been and how
broad-based. It is not the Magnificent
Seven. This is everything. The Russell
2000 is 0.2% away from an all-time
[music] high.
>> It has been absolutely phenomenal. We've
talked about it repeatedly over the last
week or so. The market reset a 10% move
off the lows [music] for the equity
market, a 20% move off the highs for the
oil market. There's a feeling this is
like [music] April 2020, April 2025
where this market just moves on and
looks through the risk and looks through
>> [music]
>> everything on the horizon very quickly.
Well, that's what it's doing right now
because the market is basically pricing
in that this war is over. Even though
yesterday, Caroline [music] Leavitt, the
press secretary, says they haven't
formally requested an extension of the
ceasefire. She says this White House
remains very much engaged with the
mediators. Everyone is expecting that
this ceasefire is going to go past the
deadline of April 22nd. And at the same
time, Reuters is reporting [music]
that the Iranians are coming to the
table with potentially saying some
vessels can pass through the [music]
side of the Strait of Hormuz that goes
out to Oman. So maybe on the horizon, we
could see more oil flows.
>> Look at what we've heard from the
companies so far. ASML out of Europe
raising its [music] outlook. TSMC,
Taiwan Semi, doing something very
similar. Bramo, do you see this [music]
as confidence in the tech trade or
comfort with the risk in the Middle
East? Is it one or the other or both? It
seems like it's confidence [music] that
economic momentum can continue even
though we have the Middle East situation
where it is. [music] And it is
predicated on the tech trade, on this
investment that is existential, that is
ongoing regardless of what happens in
the Middle East. But it's not just
[music] the tech trade. And I think that
that's important. And what we heard from
the banks is that consumers are
resilient in the United States. People
[music] want to spend. It feels like as
soon as you get the albatross off the
neck of the economy that is the
uncertainty in the Middle East, even if
you just tamp down that uncertainty,
[music]
you could get a rally and that is what
you're seeing.
>> Nice to be in Washington to cover the
IMF World Bank spring meetings. Happy
talking about it because we're all
focused on something else somewhere
else. I just wonder how consumed they
are by the physical reality on the
ground and how the tension continues to
build between the conversations we're
having about a better future
>> [music]
>> and the reality in the physical markets
in oil. Every time we bring this up, it
just feels like doom and gloom. And it
feels like we're divorced from what
everyone else is talking about. But the
reality is we've still got rationing in
Asia. There's still the risk that we're
going to see the same thing happen in
Europe in the next few weeks [music]
if we don't reopen the Strait of Hormuz
and get energy flowing once again. Every
time we talk about the extension [music]
of a two-week ceasefire and those kind
of things, I have one question and only
one question. Does that two-week
extension involve [music] reopening the
Strait of Hormuz or not? Because that
seems to be the most important thing
still this morning. You have a blockade
from the United States and then you have
Iran saying we're not going to let
anything through. So it's a double
blockade right now. Even though you are
seeing on the margins some ships start
to enter the Persian Gulf, which is a
good sign. [music]
You're right. And at the IMF meetings,
people are coming out and warning about
the gloom and doom. You guys are
divorced from reality because the
reality looks really concerning. And at
the same time, people are saying,
"You're just that nerdy kid in the
corner looking at the data. Stop it
already. We're looking at how good
things are. You guys always worry about
stuff. We're moving on." And that
dissonance can be felt that much more
profoundly this week here.
>> All-time highs on the S&P 500 and the
Nasdaq futures so far this morning up a
10th of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Max Kettner of HSBC with
stocks rallying to all-time highs. We'll
speak to General Karen Gibson of Academy
Securities on a fragile ceasefire and
the IMF director of capital markets,
Tobias Adrian, on risk to financial
stability. We begin this hour with
stocks extending gains after posting
fresh record highs. Max Kettner of HSBC
writing, "What matters more than
geopolitics is what's driving the global
earnings outlook." The big question is
whether US exceptionalism will make a
proper comeback. Max joins us now for
more. Max, you've been max overweight
for quite a while. We were talking about
it at the top of the program here. Do
you see this as comfort with the risk in
the Middle East or renewed confidence in
the US tech trade?
Uh I think it's probably more the
latter. In fact, I think I would argue
it does really does the Iran war really
matter that much to the global earnings
outlook, particularly to the earnings
outlook of the S&P. Bear in mind, when
you look at the S&P, you look at your
you with large caps.
It's not like consumer cyclicals are 30,
40%. Absolutely not, right? Actually,
look at consumer discretionary, strip
out Amazon and Tesla, you're talking
about sort of 4 and 1/2% of the S&P. And
even there, when you look within those,
you look at the proper consumer
cyclicals, you're talking something like
2 to 3% of the S&P. So even if, let's
say, the lower end of the K of the the
the slightly weaker households in terms
of
household health and financial health,
if they are hurt the least, does it
really matter to for S&P earnings? I
would argue no because you look at tech,
you look at the tech sector, you look at
the AI sectors. Actually, when you look
take it take an AI together, that
nowadays accounts for almost 50% of
market cap. So to me, I don't think what
we've seen in the last 11 trading
sessions is the irrational reaction. I
think actually what's what was
irrational was the really sort of the
20% derating and compression that we've
seen in S&P multiples at the beginning
of the war.
Max, two points you made. S&P earnings,
S&P multiples. Is the same true of the
international backdrop, the global
earnings story, the European equity
story?
I think on the European earnings story,
it's probably slightly more nuanced.
When you look at stuff like chemicals,
stuff like autos, they are going to be
probably more affected. So I think where
we're in right now, we're probably in
the sort of global relief rally, not
just because of US-Iran, but also
because of things like interest rate
volatility that has basically more than
doubled, right, during March. That's now
really, really come down quite a lot and
that helps pretty much everything. Now,
when interest rate volatility comes
down, what helps that the most? That
helps really the laggards from March. So
what do you want to do right now is
basically flip the performance picture
of March. So my my my advice to
investors is very simply, just download
the performance picture across sectors,
across regions, across asset classes in
March and you just flip it, right? You
buy the stuff that didn't work in March,
you sell the stuff that did work and
protected you. I think in a second
stage, the second trade, probably in a
couple weeks, a couple of months, that
is probably then more going towards,
"Okay, what's actually changed from the
fundamental backdrop?" A little bit like
with Russia-Ukraine where on a relative
basis, then we're probably talking
about, right, the AI outlook, the tech
outlook is still strong. So probably
then it's worth rotating from Europe to
the US, but not right now. Right now,
you're still playing that V-shape
recovery trade.
And how much, Max, is this really
predicated on the idea that big tech
suddenly is once again a haven trade
after kind of being kicked around for a
couple of months? Are we seeing anything
fundamentally different now given the
pressures from higher commodity prices
that will pressure certain consumers in
some regions more than in others?
Yeah, look, I think I'm not disputing
that it will hurt certain consumers. But
at the end of the day, our job as
analysts, our job as portfolio managers,
is to look at the aggregate number.
What's that driven by? That's not driven
by the lowest 20%, right? This is a very
cynical thing to say. The lower end of
the K that's been struggling already
since COVID, that's been struggling even
more with, you know, stuff like food
prices going up even more than core and
headline CPI. They've been really
struggling even more. They're now going
to struggle even more. Now, from our
perspective, does that matter for the
PCE or for the headline retail sales
numbers? No, they are not the main
contributors to that. So therefore,
that's why I'm saying, "You know what?
Actually, on the headline numbers,
there's probably not going to be that
awful much of change." And on the tech
side of things, I think one thing has
fundamentally changed over the last two
quarters. Pretty much since November,
since the Q3 reporting season, we've
kind of given up on the AI earnings
outlook, right? With that was the first
time where markets have actually not
rewarded, but actually punished higher
AI capex. The result of that was flat
prices of AI of hyper scalers, but
earnings going through the roof still.
And now, relative tech valuations, if
you look at S&P tech versus X tech or
max seven valuations, you're close to
10-year lows. So that tech premium has
almost entirely vanished. That really
puts tech and US on a bit of a
longer-term perspective on a really,
really, I would argue, even cheap
foundation now.
Max, I feel like you should change your
name from Max Kettner to Max Bullish
because you've been Max Bullish for
quite a while with one huge caveat,
which is what the yield backdrop ends up
looking like. That could be the fly in
the ointment if you see that danger
level, particularly with the 10-year
yield. There's a lot of uncertainty
around the Fed. The Polymarket trading
betting odds now have the chances of a
Fed chair, Jay Powell, leaving the board
by May 30th at only 31%.
I mean, how much do you see this as a
real risk versus just some sort of
theoretical risk out there given the
fact that a lot of inflationary metrics
have been relatively under control?
Yeah, just to be clear, so we not we've
not been sort of max bullish on equities
for a year and we don't see any risks at
all. It was just more in mid-March that
we thought, right, probably there's been
enough happening now and you know, we're
probably
pretty close to particularly systematic
positioning very clean, which is still
the case and that has driven us to that
max bullish stance. Am I still going to
be that in three to six months time? I
think that's very questionable because
what you've been asking, I think that is
not a theoretical risk, that is a real
risk. Because at the end of the day,
look, US earnings outlook is really
strong. At the end of the day, actually
Q1 reporting season ahead of that, we've
now seen the highest negative to
positive pre-announcement ratio from US
corporates. US corporates are telling us
ahead of the Q1 reporting season, things
are not only fine, they're even better
than they themselves have expected by
the most in five years. And that really,
I think that is something that brings
perhaps the danger back that things are
not going sort of Goldilocks, not too
hot, not too cold, but then in a couple
of months with so sticky inflation and
with perhaps the unemployment rate going
down even further because of that very
low break-even payroll and a really,
really solid and accelerating earnings
backdrop, that suddenly things are just
too good. So, I do I wouldn't pin it on
Kevin Walsh, I would simply put it on
the
perhaps in a couple of months just
looking too hot and therefore the
terminal rate may be having to move more
towards four 4% and that of course would
push put pressure across all the asset
classes with the dollar only safe haven
again.
Well, Max, in that situation, could US
exceptionalism make a proper comeback?
You say that's your third stage in your
note.
I think I think that is then the case,
yeah. I I absolutely think that's the
case because right now, what is US
exceptionalism, right? It is inflation
sort of sticky and actually
growth is kind of fine and it's
accelerating, that's particularly the
superior profitability, right, against
the rest of the world. Now, when you
look something like price-to-book ratios
of the US against the rest of the world
and you compare that to the return on
equity on a relative basis between the
US and the rest of the world, what you
will see is that the compression, that
relative compression was way more
significantly more than is justified
what's been happening on the relative
profitability side. So, I do think
people have really, really overreacted
to some sort of AI funding concerns
since Q4 last year and I think that is
then when we realize, you know what,
maybe the US, as stupid as that sounds,
is even too cheap given that superior
profitability outlook. At some stage, I
think given that sticky inflation
backdrop, given that the top-down growth
side also is more than fine, I think in
a couple of months we're talking
probably about a bit more of a
challenging rates outlook there.
Hi Max, it's good to see you from here.
It's good to see you. Max Catudal there
of HSBC on the latest outlook. That's
the bull case. Give him some credit.
He's been bullish throughout this whole
war. Give some credit as well to Venu
Krishna over at Barclays who raised his
outlook, his price target on the S&P 500
in the middle of the war with crude at
triple digits and it's been so difficult
to explain to people, maybe outside of
financial markets and not following this
every other day, that at the same time
this war has been building and this
ceasefire before it even took place and
the Strait of Hormuz remain closed, we
had earnings expectations getting
better, not worse, not the same, but
getting better, not worse. Yeah, we all
were just slightly skeptical when Venu
Krishna came in, I will just say, when
he raised his forecast and at the same
time it seems like the rest of the
market is catching up to him because
ultimately companies keep coming out and
keep beating expectations.
>> Futures this morning positive by about a
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. With an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg Brief, Isabelle Lee
has more. Morning, Isabelle. Morning,
John. At least two US sanctions on Iran
linked ships traveling through the
Strait of Hormuz and into the Persian
Gulf. The ships may have taken a new
route from the UAE passing between two
Iranian islands
>> [music]
>> as a US blockade of the Strait enters
its fourth day.
Talks are scheduled today between Israel
and Lebanon.
>> [music]
>> According to an Israeli official, the
country's prime minister and the
president of Lebanon will speak
following ambassador level talks in the
US earlier this week. Those were the
first discussions between the two
countries in more than 30 years. [music]
And the Trump administration looking to
have US car manufacturers play a larger
role in making weapons. [music]
The Wall Street Journal reporting the
Pentagon approached top executives at GM
and Ford about producing military
supplies.
The talks come as US officials grow more
concerned about domestic manufacturing
capacity. That's your Bloomberg [music]
Brief. John.
Isabelle, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on our program, a
[music] looming ceasefire deadline.
I saw some reporting again bad reporting
this morning that we had formally
requested an extension of the ceasefire.
That is not true at this moment. We've
remained very much engaged in these
negotiations. These conversations are
productive and ongoing.
Up next, we'll catch up with General
Karen Gibson of Academy Securities live
from Washington, D.C. this morning.
>> [music]
>> Good morning.
>> 11-day winning run on the Nasdaq 100.
What a rally we've seen for US tech
stocks and for the whole global equity
market bouncing back from the lows of
the last few weeks or so. On the Nasdaq,
an 11-day winning run, the longest since
December 2019. Futures this morning up
again by a tenth of 1% [music] on the
S&P 500. On the Nasdaq, up by 0.3. Lisa,
on the Russell, we're up by 0.1. Yeah,
really to me the Russell 2000 continuing
to keep pace with the S&P 500 indicates
that people don't just believe this is a
tech story even though it is going to be
fueled by AI investment. It is a
broad-based beating expectations across
the board with a consumer [music] that's
resilient and that is the story that
people are clinging to.
>> turn to crude, we've moved on.
I still check it first thing every
single morning. I'm not sure if anyone
else still does. We're still in the 90s
and there's still this massive
disconnect between the physical market
where things are really, really tight
right now, Amrita, and a paper market,
the front month of the futures curve. 96
on Brent,
>> [music]
>> WTI at 92. Nothing has actually changed
in the physical market. Actually, you
can argue things are getting worse in
the physical [music] market. I saw that
one country in Asia actually only
received half of a full tanker because
they were so desperate, they said bring
whatever you can. That's the story in
Asia and then potentially it's going to
get a little bit worse in Europe, but
right now in the United States, we're
semi in insulated. It is incredible to
see the facts not changing on the
ground,
>> [music]
>> but yet the futures
facts are changing and they're just not
priced to get in because they're pricing
in peace. Brent crude, 96.26. [music]
Under Savannah's this morning, a looming
ceasefire deadline.
I saw some reporting again bad reporting
this morning that we had formally
requested an extension of the ceasefire.
That is not true at this moment. We've
remained very much engaged in these
negotiations, in these talks. You heard
from the vice president directly and the
president this week that these
conversations are productive and ongoing
and that's where we are right now.
So, here's the latest this morning. The
US and Iran reportedly looking to extend
their truce for an additional two weeks.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from the White House for more. Good
morning, Tyler. What's true, what isn't
true and how close are we to extending
this ceasefire?
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, if we
piece through the details, we can say
that the White House at least says that
these negotiations are ongoing, but at
this point no formal confirmation here
that we're going to see an extension or
even another round of in-person talks.
Though, White House press secretary
Karoline Leavitt did go on to say that
the US feels good about the prospects
for a deal and also added that
as Pakistan remains the main mediator in
this conflict, we could likely expect
Islamabad to host the next round of
in-person talks if and when they happen.
Plus, pair that with comments from
Pakistan yesterday that a delegation had
arrived in Iran in a bid to try to keep
this momentum going because Bloomberg
News is one of those outlets now
reporting that we could see this
two-week extension and we have a little
bit more of those finer details and that
this extension would be geared towards
letting negotiators at the technical
level try to make some progress on the
biggest sticking points before senior
officials actually get back to being
face-to-face because at least publicly
the sides still feel very far apart on
some of those main points. Just
yesterday we heard from Iran's foreign
minister saying that Iran's use of
nuclear energy cannot be revoked.
Though, he did seem to suggest that the
level and type of enrichment may be up
for negotiation, but still that's
testing this White House's at least
public red line of no nuclear program.
Then of course, the issue of now the
double blockade when it comes to
reopening the Strait of Hormuz. And
John, yesterday the White House did
detail that's not the only tool of
economic pressure they would be willing
to use. US Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent saying that the US is renewing
efforts to work with Gulf
on freezing
assets of Iranian leaderships in their
banking systems and threatened secondary
sanctions on any financial institutions
that help the country.
Tyler, we'll let you go. That sprinkler
behind you making me nervous.
Just coming around at the wrong time.
No, we thought the same thing.
[laughter] I just love the lawn work
that we get every single in the morning.
We should have all these clips
>> 6:15, they're out back. of all the lawn
work in the backyard.
>> the press secretary saw some bad
reporting. So, he turned the sprinklers
on very quickly. General Karen Gibson of
Academy Securities, you think I'm
joking, maybe I'm not. Writing each day
that the Gulf remains closed to business
increases risk to the global
>> the risks on the ground right now, the
state of the ceasefire and the state of
the blockade. What's your assessment of
things? So, the ceasefire is holding,
which is a good sign. It it establishing
the ceasefire was a positive step by
stepping off that escalatory kinetic
ladder that we had been on and an
extension of a ceasefire, I think is a
sign that perhaps there's some
productive dialogue going on in back
channel. If it were increasingly
frustrated, we would probably see a bold
an additional bold action by the United
States. In terms of the blockade, I
think that's a very bold move, an
attempt to decline or decrease some of
Iran's leverage and to deny them
revenue, whether that's from the toll
that they exact on passage of vessels or
from their own exports. And ideally,
that will bring them to the table to
make additional concessions. I have no
doubt about the US Navy's ability to
execute this mission with the same kind
of competence,
professionalism and precision of all the
missions they've performed throughout
this campaign, but it does not solve the
transit problem of vessels that remain
stuck in the in the Gulf.
>> Well, in the past, we've seen the Fifth
Fleet escort tankers through the Strait
of Hormuz. Can we see that? Um that is
certainly possible. It's another
feasible option. It's resource-intensive
and so now there is another carrier, as
I understand, steaming towards the Gulf.
But both the blockade and escorts are
resource-intensive. It's not just the
ships that are escorting them,
destroyers, uh fighter cap, uh combat
air patrol, intelligence, surveillance
and reconnaissance, minesweepers. And
even if we are escorting vessels,
particularly if we're the only nation
that's doing it, we can't escort the
same number of vessels that previously
were flowing through the Gulf prior to
this conflict.
>> So, the volume will be low. But if they
if the US Fifth Fleet were to do this,
when could they actually start doing it?
Um I think if they want to impose both
the blockade and escorts, we'd probably
want to wait for the arrival of the
other the additional um carrier strike
group that is, I understand, is on its
way there. I think it's important to
note though that
Iran's ability to choke off the Gulf is
very broad. Um it's really based on a
perception of risk. It doesn't take a
lot of resources on their part. It's not
hard to drop a mine or two or even to
say we've dropped mines over here and
then someone has to verify it,
demonstrate the feasibility of sailing
through there. And the decision to flow
through the Gulf, as you know well, it's
not a military or a political decision.
It's an economic decision based on
commercial risk. Unless there is a
transformation in terms of the way that
trips transit through the Strait of
Hormuz, will things ever be the same
again because of this perceived risk
that is now in the forefront of every
shipping uh company's minds?
>> Yeah, I think perceived risk is exactly
what it boils down to. And so there's a
much that must happen to lower that
perception. Um the ceasefire is an
important step because right now we
don't see anyone, you know, taking any
hits from drones, missiles, etc. Also,
progress on the diplomatic front would
be an important confidence builder. But
it this
period of risk or this perception of
risk extends beyond shipping. You know,
we've seen strikes against airfields,
against, you know, Dubai. Um there's
much that will need to be done to lower
that temperature across the region. And
I know that our Gulf partners are very
interested in seeing this resolved so
that they can resume a a normal
commercial environment.
>> I think we all want to see the same
thing, Lisa. Just how close are we to a
diplomatic breakthrough? I think that's
an important question. And are we just
getting a one-sided serving of verbal
intervention that implies things are
better than they actually are in the
negotiations? One of the reasons why
people are getting confidence is because
even Iran has said that they're coming
to the table, although they're also
battling their internal PR battle given
the fact that people don't want to see
that in the Islamic Republic. You are
correct. How much is this an a
job-owning game that is one-sided as
well and asymmetric in the same kind of
way?
>> It's certainly been effective. Let's put
it that way. General, thanks for being
here. [music] Thanks for making time for
us. Thank you. That was General Karen
Gibson of Academy Securities. Up next on
the program, we'll catch up with Bob
McNally [music]
of Rapidan. With energy shortages
looming, we've seen this story building
across Asia. Is Europe up next? [music]
That conversation just around the
corner.
Live from the ancient capital this
morning. Good [music] morning to you.
Equity futures so far this morning on
the S&P 500 shaping up as follows.
Following a three-day winning streak on
the S&P
>> [music]
>> and a 10% plus rally off the equity
market low from the end of last month,
we're up another tenth of 1% [music] on
the S&P. On the Nasdaq, 11-day winning
streak. We haven't seen one of those
since 2019. Can we make it day 12? Which
just sounds absolutely ridiculous. The
Nasdaq 100 up by quarter of 1%. Renewed
enthusiasm for the tech trade. But Bram,
as you've pointed out reportedly
repeatedly over the last 30 minutes or
so, it's not just about US tech.
>> Yeah, we're also getting reports from
[music] the likes of Pepsi beating
expectations. Even consumer
discretionary is coming out and
exceeding expectations. I mean, heck,
even [music] a sneakers company is
becoming an AI company. So, all of a
sudden everyone can rally. But
ultimately, you keep getting these beats
and a sense from the big banks the
consumer is still strong and that yes,
higher gas prices might hurt, but not
enough to to really eliminate this
result. You want to go there? I mean,
you went there. So, let's go there. I
mean, old bets, [music] I guess is what
you're talking about. Is there another
one? This has It's the first one. There
might be others [music] based on that
stock move yesterday. This has echoes of
what we saw with the crypto craziness.
What was that? 2017, 2018? That period
where people started renaming companies
and putting blockchain in the title to
get the stocks to rip. And it was
effective then. And I imagine [music]
we're going to see more of the same this
time around.
>> like Overstock was the perfect poster
child of that when they came out and
this furniture company was talking about
how they really are a blockchain
company. Now, if a sneaker company can
be an AI equipment company, are we
reaching the same kind of fervor?
>> Long Island Iced Tea, wasn't that it?
Oh, that's right. That was so good. Good
times.
>> Good times. Nasdaq futures [music] up by
2/10 of 1% so far this morning. Should
we turn to the bond market? Check it
out. So, we've had a 10% move off the
low in the equity market. And in the oil
market, we've had a 20% [music] move off
the high. In the bond market, things
just a touch snoozier. A 15 basis point
move off recent highs on a 10-year bond
yield this morning, down by about a
basis point. Lisa, 427.56.
>> Yeah, ultimately the bond market has
been beset by dueling
dueling ideas here. On one hand, you've
had inflation that's been coming in hot.
On the other hand, it's going to dampen
some of the [music] consumer resilience
so that might take some of the heat out
of the economy. Are we looking at
inflationary shock or the
disinflationary shock that we had before
[music] this conflict that could allow
the Fed to cut rates? And then of
course, there's the drama on the Fed.
>> Now, the drama elsewhere as well is also
in the oil market. So, it's that time of
the morning, that time of the program
where we turn to crude and we sound
completely divorced from the enthusiasm
taking place elsewhere when we point out
that Brent still trading at 96, WTI is
at 92 and the physical market still a
mess. Yes, it's still a mess. The street
is still closed. There's a few [music]
vessels that are getting through, but
nothing like the volume we've seen in
normal times. Remember, there's a
blockade on a blockade. Yes, we have a
ceasefire. They're thinking about
extending it, but to do that, we would
need to see at least one of the demands
from United States the Strait of Hormuz
be open. What Iran is offering now,
according [music] to Reuters, is just
that they allow some vessels to go
through the Gulf of Oman. That's not a
full flowing of oil that we've seen
before this crisis [music] started. When
you look at the futures market, they're
basically just shrugging off the
physical pain we are seeing in Asia and
it is real.
>> [music]
>> When you look at people working from
home and what they're doing in try
organizing find blackouts, it is serious
pain for a lot of people in Asia and
that's just going to be moving to
Europe, not yet in the United States.
>> Brent crude 96.44
on our radar this morning. The US and
Iran moving closer to a ceasefire
extension. Mediators working through the
main sticking points including the
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz and
the future of Iran's nuclear program.
Elsewhere, the Pentagon approaching US
car makers about playing a larger role
in weapons manufacturing. The Wall
Street Journal reporting US officials
are holding talks with top executives at
GM and Ford about producing military
supplies. And finally, the CFTC
investigating a series of well-timed and
profitable bets around President Trump's
military decisions in Iran and
Venezuela. The agency looking at
instances of surging trading volume and
requesting data from exchanges.
>> And this comes after widespread
speculation and criticism about who is
making money and profiting off of
information that might be leaking ahead
of this. We heard from the CME is any
review of market behavior must include
all venues, uh including prediction
markets like Polymarket and Kalshi
because there's been a lot of
speculation around those as well. There
has been this underlying feeling, why
would you play ball at a time when
somebody else has an inside hand? And
ultimately, that has been speculation
time and time again. It's important to
really unveil that and get a true
answer. And it doesn't help when it
comes to speculation when the White
House felt the need to send out an
internal memo reminding people not to
trade off of information you are finding
out working at the White House.
Interesting today, the CFTC chair will
be speaking at agriculture committee
giving testimony in Congress. This is of
course going to come up. You want
maximum transparency and you don't want
to feel like someone else has got an
edge that you don't have, not because
they worked harder than you, but because
they have access to information that
other people don't have. This is
something we have to address. I would
say it goes beyond financial markets as
well. I think it goes to betting
markets, too. And that's something on
everyone's horizon based on the last few
months.
>> It reduces uh liquidity. It reduces
market free trade because ultimately
people want to see that fair playing
field. Otherwise, why would they get
involved? So you're absolutely right.
And how many people did we talk to? This
isn't a tradeable market because
ultimately what edge can you get unless
you have an inside line?
>> And this is becoming a political issue,
not just for the midterm elections this
year, but for 2028. Rahm Emanuel, who
was the chief of staff for former
President Barack Obama, he's mulling
whether or not he's going to run. He
doesn't think anyone that works in
government should be able to trade or
their families on Polymarket or Kalshi
or any of these sort of prediction
markets.
>> Liquidity's the issue here, and I praise
Lisa brought it up. If you believe
something fishy's going on here, are you
willing to deploy capital to these
markets in the same way? And if you're
not, does that disrupt the amount of
liquidity in markets on any given day?
Now, that's why we like US financial
markets, deep, liquid, transparent,
information, nothing hiding. Maybe I'm
talking a little bit too rosy about
financial markets in general, but
ultimately that's the benefit of US
capital markets. If you do something to
sacrifice that
because you want to get a small gain
ahead of the president and a declaration
he's about to make, that's something
they need to take really seriously, and
I'm pleased that some people are. You
know, I wonder how much the recent kind
of shrug that the market is giving to a
lot of the headlines is because of this.
Why should anybody be taken for a ride
on whipsawing headlines or extreme pro
prognostications given the fact that in
the past they've been on the losing side
every single time. Again, fool me once,
shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on
me, and I got it right. Right again for
a second time. Three, three, Brahma. I
mean, that was a replay though. I did
they were counting. I was holding my
breath. I was holding my breath.
Can she do it? All right, let's go down.
All right, let's go. You've been
practicing. I every day in the mirror.
I'm so so impressed.
>> Thanks. Equities right now in the S&P
just about unchanged on the S&P 500.
Crude etching higher, and gas prices
still elevated with the Strait of Hormuz
all but closed. The Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent saying lower fuel prices
should be on the way.
I'm optimistic
that during the summer we will see gas
with a three in front of it sooner
rather than later. I'm optimistic that
sometime between June 20th and September
20th that we can have $3 gas again.
Bob McNally of Rapidan Energy Group
expecting a prolonged Hormuz disruption
writing, "If the Strait does not reopen
by 3Q, we estimate the oil price rally
will likely need to be capped by
extensive demand destruction in the form
of severe hits to GDP growth." Bob joins
us now for more. Bob, welcome to the
show. I wonder if you share that
enthusiasm and confidence of the
Treasury Secretary for lower gas prices
in the months ahead.
Well, good to be with you. You know, our
base case is that we will avoid that
worst case recession caps the oil price
spike. It's how it's been done in the
past, but we're cautiously optimistic we
will get to a better outcome, not right
away, but we will have either a
ceasefire in the coming weeks that
allows a full resumption of Hormuz flows
or or the US this military will get on
with the job of degrading Iran's ability
to interrupt shipping in in the coming
weeks. That may take a little longer,
but I'm cautiously optimistic we may be
see the end of the oil price rally
hopefully before it has to come to
recession. However, gas prices, that's
another story. We have to see how how
things turn out this summer. I I hope
maybe by the end of the summer to have a
three handle, but
that would be that would be optimistic.
Bob, Reuters is reporting that Iran
could consider rerouting ships to safely
go through the Gulf of Oman. How would
that affect flows? How many more vessels
could we see actually then start to
move?
Well, in the old days before this,
the way [clears throat] out we'd go
through Omani waters and the way in
through
Iranian waters. They kind of split the
the highways, if you will, the TSSs.
And I think, you know,
if it's just Omani waters open,
it's not clear we can get back to a full
and safe
restart of flows. Possibly, but I think
what Iran is really signaling here, and
it's more important, is that it
realizes, and this is very important and
very helpful in the long term. It
realizes no one's going to let them be
the toll keeper of Hormuz in the long
term. They did move and play the oil
card. I don't think the US expected
that, and because they have this
leverage, they have stronger ability to
extract concessions from the United
States on nuclear and other things, and
they probably will. However, they
realize the Gulf Cooperation Council
countries, Israel, the United States,
there's no way we're going to allow them
to choke this thing forever. So I think
it's kind of an admission that, yeah, we
know at some point
flows are going to resume, whether it's
through totally Omani waters, we could
do that if we had to, or back to the old
ways, partially Iranian, partially
Omani, but it's it's going to come back
to freedom of navigation eventually.
The president yesterday was talking a
lot about his conversations with China
and his upcoming trip to China. Right
now, I know China's taking in much less
crude from
the Middle East, about half of what's
going on in terms of what they used to
import from Saudi Arabia. How are they
dealing with the problem right now? Cuz
I know you have a new note right now
actually talking about how China is
going to weather this storm.
So China's stocked up well. I mean,
they're not enjoying it, but they're
doing better than their many of their
Asian neighbors. They had 1.2 billion in
crude inventories.
They've been hoarding like mad other
commodities as well. They're going to
begin to draw those down. They're
dropping runs. Again, they're in a
better position than many of their
neighbors with regard to this famine of
oil that is now certainly in Asia. So
with regard to the loss of the 1.6 or so
they were getting from Iran, I think we
expect more stock draws, more run cuts.
No fun, but it's not a not a disaster.
But I just step back and say this, I
think this whole
Iran and and China link is overstated.
China has much more going on with the
other side of the Gulf and the Gulf
Cooperation Council countries in terms
of economic and financial linkages, and
the relationship with the United States
is very important. It's got big agenda
items on trade, chips, and other things,
Taiwan. And so, you know, I wouldn't
overstate how tight that linkage and
that relationship with Iran really is
with China, and they're dealing with it,
you know, pretty well. I don't think
they're going to militarily challenge
our blockade. I think they understand
this is not about China, it's about
Iran. And so I'm I'm optimistic that the
China aspect of this can be managed
pretty well.
Bob, what are you looking for to
understand whether the blockade of the
blockade could get removed, and the
first blockade get removed, and then the
second one could get removed, and we
could actually get free flow in some
form or another in the near term?
Well, I don't think the blockade is
going to be removed, US blockade on
Iran. Indeed, it looks like it's being
expanded this morning to allow checks
for ships that may have contraband or
weapons of nuclear weapons and so forth.
So if anything, it's expanding. So I
think, look, there's going to be a big
deal at some point, and there'll be
resolution on nuclear, on missiles, on
proxies, on
get giving Iran some of its money back,
etc., and that'll include the Strait of
Hormuz, and we'll be lifting a blockade.
We don't think we're there yet.
Unfortunately, we think this has to get
worse before it gets better. But at the
end of the day, I think there's going to
be a settlement of all the issues, and
we'll see a lifting of of blockades
being imposed by both sides. And we have
to hope that by then we will not have
seen extensive destruction to physical
infrastructure, which would prolong the
recovery in flows beyond the three to
four months we're already looking at.
Robert, always good to catch up with
you, sir. Appreciate your time. Bob
McNally there of Rapidan Energy Group on
the reality in the oil market, and it's
not a great reality in the physical
market right now. But we talked about
this countless times. Companies keep
delivering results. I remember a line
from Savita Subramanian of Bank of
America, which she uses repeatedly,
"Never underestimate corporate America."
We've seen that from the financials all
week. BNY reported just moments ago, and
they've done exactly the same thing.
Record revenue, double-digit growth, net
income up by 36% year-over-year. The
stock is up in the premarket by
something like 0.8%. Since Robin Vince
took over this bank back in 2022, the
stock is up by more than 200%. Now, I'm
not just mentioning that because that's
a Brit in charge of a US bank, but he's
had a phenomenal phenomenal run at this
institution, and it's another example,
Brahma, of another company getting it
done in America at a time where there's
a lot of stress elsewhere. Yeah, and if
there are any Brits running American
companies who wanted to reach out to
John, I recommend that they do so. Look,
I do think that this really highlights
two things. Number one, execution, and
you are seeing a number of large firms
actually execute pretty incredibly so
far this quarter. I think it also speaks
to the liquidity and just how much cash
a lot of investors have, and people keep
coming back to this as also one of the
hallmarks of resilience. There's just so
much cash that needs go to go to work. I
mean, the idea of scarcity of bonds that
we hear about from Mike Bob Michael over
at JP Morgan Asset Management, you're
seeing that in the results from asset
managers and big banks.
>> Stock up in the premarket by 0.8%. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. With your Bloomberg brief,
Isabelle Lee has more. Hey, Isabelle.
Hey, John. Taiwan Semiconductor is
hiking its revenue outlook, now
forecasting 30% growth for the year. The
chipmaker saw profits surge as AI demand
remains resilient despite global
instability. Executives did offer a word
of caution, though, warning that the
conflict in the Middle East could
eventually squeeze margins as shipping
costs and energy costs continue [music]
to rise.
China's economic growth rebounded more
than expected in its first quarter,
suggesting less spillover from the
Middle East war so far. The growth was
boosted by strong manufacturing and
exports, but consumer [music] spending
and private investment eased.
And PepsiCo shares rising in premarket
after reporting earnings that beat on
the top and bottom lines. The company
saying it's seeing improvement in salty
snacks volume following recent price
cuts. PepsiCo also announcing an
overhaul of its Gatorade brand. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John.
Isabelle, thank you. More from Isabelle
in about 30 minutes time. And next on
the program, energy's ripple effect.
The biggest risk continues to be that
[music] inflation gets imported around
the world again through the energy
complex. That becomes challenging. That
[music] that that queers the cost of
capital effectively then
you start talking about the R word.
Up next, we'll catch up with the IMF
director of capital markets, Tobias
Adrian.
>> [music]
>> He joins us in just a moment, live from
Washington, D.C. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Equity futures on the S&P just about
unchanged. So the S&P 500 so far this
morning holding steady after posting new
fresh all-time highs on the S&P for the
first [music] time since January. On the
Nasdaq, an 11-day winning run could
become day 12. [music] Equity futures on
the Nasdaq this morning up by 0.05%.
And the surveillance this morning,
energy's [music] ripple effect.
The biggest risk continues to be that
inflation gets imported around the world
again through the energy complex [music]
and then eventually works its way
through the
food and general living ecosystem. And
that becomes that becomes challenging.
That that that queers the cost of
capital and effectively then
you start talking about the R word. The
good news is we're not talking about the
R word.
Very cool conversation with Ted Pick
[music] of Morgan Stanley together with
Bramo just yesterday. Catch the full
conversation out on bloomberg.com and on
the Bloomberg terminal. Here's the
latest this morning at the IMF World
Bank spring meeting. The IMF cutting its
growth outlook and warning of major
risks if the war persists. The IMF
global financial stability report
writing the global financial system is
confronting several channels through
which market turmoil could escalate into
financial instability. Tobias Adrian,
the IMF director of monetary and capital
markets, joins us now for more. Good
morning, sir. It's good to see you.
>> Good morning. Very good to be here.
>> just recalling a phrase from the Bank of
International Settlements from more than
a decade ago and that was uneasy calm.
And I think that phrase uneasy calm
maybe captures this moment quite well.
Do you agree?
Well, when we look at markets, there's
certain certainly a lot of risk appetite
in markets that has come back. Over the
past seven weeks, we've seen an ebb and
flow in terms of this risk appetite. You
know, our own assessment is that risks
continue to be tilted to the downside.
Well, this is a strange thing, right? So
risks of it to continue to be tilted to
the downside and markets are hitting up
new all-time highs. People are moving on
as though this doesn't exist. I mean,
how do you understand that from a sort
of animal spirits point of view and
where there could be potential systemic
risks that are developing? Yeah, that's
a very good question. So the way that we
look into the future is by considering
three scenarios. A reference scenario
that is relatively benign where the
inflationary shock is somewhat temporary
and adverse scenario where the inflation
shock is more persistent and many
central banks would have to act. And
then a severe scenario where financial
stability problems would start to play a
role. And looking back again over the
past seven weeks,
you can imagine that so like the
relative likelihood of those three
scenarios was shifting over time as the
new news flows was hitting markets. At
the same time, it seems like there are a
number of economies, particularly in
Asia, Southeast Asia, that don't have
enough money to acquire physical crude
right now. And so they're having the
shutdowns, they're having some of the
restrictions on commercial activity.
Given how tenuous the financial position
was to begin with in some of these
nations, how much does it set back by
decades some of the countries that had
made progress?
Yeah, that's a that's a very good point,
right? When we look across countries,
there's a huge variance in terms of how
how hard countries are hit in terms of
pricing and in terms of the oil supply
shock.
So it's
the more vulnerable countries, whether
that's vulnerable emerging markets or or
developing economies, you know, those
are disproportionately hit as the share
of energy consumption and food
consumption is much higher relative to
advanced economies. And of course, many
countries are importers of oil,
importers of gas and that is
particularly challenging for them. You
know what's strange? It seems like yes,
there's an uneasy calm and there's a war
going on that's really threatening
supply chains, but the atmosphere this
year at the IMF meetings is actually
significantly better than it was last
year. Why is that?
So as as you pointed out at the
beginning, there is
quite a bit of
hope
that is
around. Though when we look back over
over the weeks,
you know, there has been a back and
forth, right? Volatility has come up at
the moment. The VIX is you know, below
or or at about historical averages.
But you know, we have seen spikes as
well. So you know, let's see how we
evolve. To Lisa's point on what's going
on in Asia, Bob McNally was just on. He
said it's a famine when it comes to
energy. Is that going to hurt capital
flows into these countries? So we have
seen a
withdrawal of portfolio flows out of
emerging markets
that is significant, right? Compared to
2022, it's about double in terms of
outflows. But the price action remains
somewhat contained. So spreads have
widened both hard currency and local
currency spreads.
But relative to the flows,
it remains a somewhat benign scenario.
>> Is there something about this situation
that risks amplifying existing
vulnerabilities? We talk often about
private credit. Do you see a connection
between the two things at the moment?
Yes, so there are a number of
vulnerabilities that taken in isolation
seem manageable. But if all the
vulnerabilities come together, it could
become uncomfortable in a in a severely
adverse scenario. Do you think that's
likely?
We think there's some likelihood on this
on this severe scenario, but it's
certainly not our baseline. It's
certainly not appreciated right now in
financial markets in general with equity
markets at all-time highs at the moment
on the S&P and the Nasdaq this morning.
>> And frankly, if you listen to the
rhetoric from a lot of the bank CEOs,
none of them seem to think that private
credit is a real systematic threat. In
fact in fact, they're all investing and
broadening out and what Ted Pick said
yesterday was it's a credit issue. It's
not just private credit. And if the
economy is going gangbusters, guess
guess what? Credit does well.
Ultimately, it seems like everyone feels
better this time this year than at the
same time last year even with
no oil or anything else getting through
the Strait of Hormuz.
>> There was a line of questioning in your
Ted Pick interview that I thought was
really really important. The point you
made about capital markets activity
benefiting from volatility, but deal
making and advisory fees have still held
up. That's a strange mix. You think
about volatility and you think that
would upset the latter. That didn't
happen last quarter.
>> headline volatility, but it wasn't
directionally negative. So it was good
volatility for banks because people were
motivated to shift around particularly
on single names, but they still got
deals done. So it's kind of a perfect
mix that really led to an incredible
results from the big banks.
>> This headline coming from AP just
moments ago speaking to the IEA head
saying Europe. We talk a lot about this
question. Europe has maybe six weeks
left of jet fuel. That headline crossing
just moments ago.
>> This is what Asia's been dealing with
and now the next stop is going to be
Europe. And also what Fatih Birol, the
head of the IEA, speaking to the AP says
warning of possible flight cancellations
soon if these supplies remain blocked
given what is going on with the Strait
of Hormuz.
>> Not good. Tobias, it's good to see you,
sir. Thanks for being here. Yeah, thank
you very much.
>> time for us. The IMF director of
monetary [music] and capital markets. Up
next on this program, we'll catch up
with Gargi Chaudhry of BlackRock, Doug
Rediker of International Capital
Strategies, the Barclays CEO C. S.
Venkatakrishnan, and the former New York
Fed president Bill Dudley. The second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance just
around the corner.
The economic data has been a bit mixed.
>> The top 20% of earners basically
determine success or failure for this
economy. People are overplaying the
K-shaped economy.
>> We need to see some continued
resilience.
>> Consumers will remain resilient.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Ann Marie Hordern.
Live from the nation's capital this
morning. Good morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. The second hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
now and your price action looks like
this. All-time highs coming into
Thursday and we add some weight to that
rally up a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500,
[music] up two tenths on the Nasdaq
following an 11-day winning run. Leaving
behind the fear of March, embracing some
tech enthusiasm and a whole lot more.
[music]
>> Yeah, and what you would have today if
we have these gains continue, it would
be the longest streak, 12 [music] days,
going back to 2017 given the fact that
people are looking to what we heard from
Max Kuttner looks cheap in terms of the
discounts that you've seen on some of
the Magnificent Seven. And frankly, the
tech spend that just keeps on going.
>> The outlook for earnings has improved.
[music]
Yes, I know it's difficult to get your
head around, but throughout this war,
six weeks of it, earnings expectations
[music] have been improving, not
deteriorating. And that's been a major
feature, a major dimension
>> [music]
>> since have been improving, not
deteriorating. And that's been a major
feature, a major dimension of anchoring
[music] the bull case over the last
month or so.
>> I would argue it just sort of
underscores how much we were
underestimating the strength of the US
economy during the first quarter heading
[music] into the conflict in Iran. How
much would the economy have surprised
the upside had there not been this extra
cloud when it came to higher oil prices?
And what you're seeing is a number of
the pillars of this economy seem
somewhat divorced from what's going on
with Iran, from
existential spend to build out AI. And
frankly, consumers still have jobs and
so they're still spending.
>> We're gaining confidence in the [music]
US tech trade is not exactly the same
thing as getting comfortable with the
risk in the Middle East. And I'm not
sure anyone's really comfortable with
what's happening [music] right now. It's
an uneasy calm. We talked about that
about 10 15 minutes ago. I would say an
uncomfortable calm given the deadlock we
see between talks [music] between the US
and Iran. There's a conversation about
extending the ceasefire. There's still a
blockade. The Strait of Hormuz is still
closed. The physical market is still
very tight. And in crude right now,
[music] we traded in the 90s on WTI and
on Brent crude. Sub 100 might bring you
some comfort, but I can't take a lot of
confidence away from what's happening in
a very, very tight oil and oil product
market [music] on the ground right now.
The real
for the real world, this is dire. As Bob
McNally just said, and the IEA is coming
out saying that [music] Europe maybe has
6 weeks of jet fuel left. Executive
[music] director Fatih Birol says in the
past there's a group called Dire
Straits. It's a dire strait now and it's
going to have major implications [music]
for the global economy. Which is why I
feel like a Debbie Downer when you look
at what's going on in the equity market
and actually how depressed the oil
market is right now when it comes to
paper market because the physical market
is so
>> Dire Straits. You know, it's That that
makes sense. There you go.
>> this is from Fatih Birol. But you know,
all those oil people, they all talk.
They're all invited to Bob McNally's
band.
>> makes a lot of sense, you know. I play
that song every morning coming into
[music] work. Do you? Yeah, there you
go.
>> up song. Hey? That's a pump up song.
>> That's not a
not quite a pump up song, just a chill
song. I like to stay mellow. Anyway,
coming up on the program, Gargi Chaudhry
of BlackRock with equity sitting fresh
record highs. Doug Rediker of
International Capital Strategies as the
US and Iran move closer to extending the
ceasefire. And the Barclays CEO, C.S.
Venkatakrishnan, as the war's energy
shock ripples across Europe. Looking
forward to that conversation with Venkat
later on this morning. A question about
the Middle East, sure. Trading, capital
markets, all that stuff. They're at a
quiet period, so they're not going to
say too much about earnings. I want to
know about Mythos and their access to
that tool coming from Anthropic and
whether it's the real deal in their
mind. Because I've been struggling with
this not just over the last week, but
for much of this year. How much of the
fair stories coming out of this industry
marketing for the IPO roadshow and how
much of it is the real deal. And
frankly, we've heard some of both. I
mean, clearly the Treasury Department is
taking it really seriously. So far, all
the big banks are saying, "Mythos is our
friend." And actually, this highlights
how much we can get ahead of any kind of
cyber threats. And we are embracing this
AI technology. The degree to which they
are shaking in their boots about what
kind of threats they could be getting
from cyber criminals, we don't see that
in those earning calls.
>> The Barclays boss coming up a little bit
later this hour. Looking forward to it.
We begin this hour with stocks pushing
higher following a record-setting
session. Gargi Chaudhry of BlackRock
writing analysts have revised S&P 500
earnings estimates upward by 2% over the
past month. However, the outlook is not
completely rosy. Gargi joins us now from
home. Gargi, welcome to the program.
What a move. Blink and you'll miss it.
It looks like the return of US
exceptionalism. Is it that or something
else?
Good morning. It's great to be here.
Thank you so much for having me. So, you
know, I was looking through my notes and
the last time I was here, one of the
things that we had discussed was just
this idea that historically markets have
looked through geopolitical
shocks. And I think what we're seeing
right now is exactly that, but with one
added caveat, that as opposed to sort of
the liberation day movements when
earnings expectations went down during
that period, what we saw in this last
month of March was valuations reset and
clients actually racing to take
take the opportunity to get back into
those cheaper parts of the market and
really focusing on tech and AI, which is
where we saw most of that value value be
created.
Gargi, let's talk about that value
creation. When we sit here and say
earnings expectations improved
throughout this crisis, where have those
earnings expectations actually seen the
greatest improvement? Is it just an
energy story or is it in another sector
in more sectors than just one?
Absolutely, and that's actually a very
important point. So, when you look at
how the earnings expectation improved,
it certainly obviously did in the energy
sector. But it was quite concentrated
outside of that in tech, actually. It
wasn't broadly across every sector. We
saw it in tech, we saw it in
communication services,
obviously in energy. And then outside of
that, things remained, you know, quite
muted. So, I would say as we go into
this earning season as opposed to every
other time when there is a revision
lower and then you beat earnings
expectation, this time around, I think
the bar is a little bit higher.
Obviously, we've seen this move, we've
seen this value creation, we're seeing
tremendous amount of inflows. These are
all good things, but I wouldn't be too
complacent and I do think the you know,
all of the earnings expectations that
have been revised higher, we have to see
that realize. And obviously, we're
watching tech very closely and we're
telling investors, go back to focusing
on that AI theme, on that tech, on that
growth part of the economy.
If you have all of these companies that
are beating expectations, raising
forecasts, a consumer that's strong, and
you have a lessening of some of the
tensions in the Middle East, then how
much do inflationary pressures really
start to kick in, especially if
commodity prices are just persistently
higher for the foreseeable future?
Absolutely. So, this is something that,
you know, I've been pointing out. We've
been telling clients that this is a good
time to add some inflation protection to
your portfolio.
You know, we've been recommending S-tip,
which is sort of the zero to five-year
part of the curve. One of the benefits
in having that is you're tied to
headline inflation, which obviously, as
you said, Lisa, is going to continue to
move higher at least in the short term.
While at the same time, we saw some
encouraging signs in the CPI data last
week where at least some parts of
shelter inflation are moving lower. If
you look at the sort of the three-month,
the six-month annualized data for
shelter inflation, that is below that 3%
level, which allows the Fed maybe to at
least stay on hold. So, certainly think
about ways in which in the near term,
maybe the three- to six-month period
that you can add some inflation
protector protection, whether that's
through tips or whether that's through a
broad broad basket of commodities.
Gargi, I'd love to get into investor
sentiment with you and just get a sense
of the psychology over the past couple
of weeks. We were talking earlier about
this perception that it was an uneven
playing field during headline roulette
and that some people had an edge. And
how do you get an edge when you get in?
And there was this paralysis among
investors. Why should you trade if
you're likely to get your face ripped
off given the fact that somebody else
has a disproportionate amount of
information. Do you feel like there was
a freeze over a lot of the activity that
seems to be softening, thawing out as we
can move on to fundamentals and things
like earnings? It's a great point. So,
the two things that we watch when we're
looking at what investor sentiment is
doing, the first is we actually pull our
clients. We have weekly calls with 1 to
2,000 clients joining. We ask them how
their investor sentiment, how their risk
sentiment is. And we saw that take a
dip. And what that meant was they were
staying invested. To be clear, no one
was selling
at the lows. They were staying invested,
but not adding. Over the last week, that
has picked back up to the highs. So, it
is turning as some of the headlines
around hopefully a more durable
ceasefire come into play. The second
thing we look at is absolutely around
flows. Where are the flows going? And
again, over the first couple of weeks of
April, what we're saying is in fixed
income, the flows are moving away from
cash-like products to some more risk-on
products. And then within equities, we
had the best eight days in equity flows
into especially US equities. And then
lastly, I'd say people are coming back
to EM again, which is now being viewed
more as an AI story with 46% of IEMG
focused on tech and com services.
But so much of part of EM is in this
world where they are in dire need of
energy. How does that make any sense?
You
you bring up a good point. Absolutely. I
mean, EM, we you know, we can't paint
that with one brush. There are commodity
importers, commodity exporters.
But if you look if you happen to look at
a broad index such as the one that I
just mentioned, IEMG, what you do find
is how much that has changed in
composition over just the last decade.
On top of that, if you look at where
earnings growth expectations came over
just the last month, EM earnings got
revised actually even more upwardly
higher than US. So, investors are paying
attention to that earnings revision and
expected earnings growth in EM. This is
related to Korea, this is related to
Taiwan, which obviously is in the heart
of the memory and compute demand. And
we're beginning to see that in broad EM.
Now, obviously, there are parts of EM
which don't have the memory and the chip
associated with it and are also energy
importers. And I think that's certainly
going to continue to struggle.
Is there like a statute of limitations
on this? Neil Dutta writes about this.
He goes, "Either markets are dumb or the
oil analysts are." You mentioned things
like the hyperscalers, TSMC. They were
great today, but they are still
monitoring how how they're going to be
able to use because of what is going on
in Qatar and given the Strait of Hormuz.
Is there a statute of limitation to
basically how high and the earnings
expectations for the equity market? You
know, I think what's happened over the
last sort of 7 or 8 days is that equity
markets have started living in the
future. They're looking at the growth
expectations. They're looking at earning
expectations. Equities always live in
the future. They're the longest duration
asset. Oil markets and oil analysts are
obviously showing us that there the risk
isn't quite over yet. And there is
likely to be continued uh security
concerns, energy security concerns,
which should be certainly one thing that
we leave this with after the end of the
war, hopefully that's coming soon. One
of the things that investors should all
be thinking about is how do I get energy
security in my portfolio because that's
something that's going to stick with me.
So, I think equities focusing on the
earnings revisions that we talked about
and obviously with the expectations
moving to 12, 13%, that's what's driving
some of the price action. I think
investors should A think about energy
security and B focus still on that need
for inflation protection in their
portfolios.
Gargi, always good to catch up and see
you. Gargi Choudhury there of BlackRock.
That disconnect, we've talked about this
countless times on this program. In
fact, I've talked to Jeff Currie of
Carlyle in the past about the
disconnect. It's a difference in the
seat that you're sitting in. If you're
in the equity seat at the moment, you
are looking over an anticipatory asset
class seeking comfort from a
backwardated futures curve looking at
the December price and saying I can live
with 70, 80 dollar crude. If you're in
the commodity market, you're looking at
a physical market that has to trade has
to clear demand and supply at spot and
that is very, very tight to the point
that we're seeing shortages in places
like Asia and that explains the
difference with this sort of rosy
outlook that come from the equity guys
on this program and the doom and gloom
that you see from the commodity analysts
who are focused on the physical market
at the moment. It's not to say that one
is right and one is wrong. It's just a
very different, big difference in
perspective. And your world view. But
for the commodity guys, it's not just
what is happening right now, it's the
future. What happens goes on a little
bit longer. There's shut-ins. How long
does it take to get production back?
It's not just reopening the Strait of
Hormuz. There are actually long-term
potential implications because of what
is going on right now.
>> And that is where the great attention
lies at the moment and the prospect for
maybe higher than expected inflation,
the risk reward around the inflation
story, Bramo. I think is the point
you're trying to make this morning.
Well, to me, you can't have your cake
and eat it, too. Although evidently you
can cuz that seems to be what's going on
in markets today. But it seems like
companies are saying the economy is
better than you expected and yet people
are still saying, "Well, inflation
expectations are going to remain
controlled even as the Fed potentially
cuts rates once this year and once again
next year." So, where is the disconnect
there in terms of the inflationary
pressure that can take hold should the
economy continue to outperform to the
upside?
>> Futures on the S&P up by close to a
tenth of 1% for an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg Brief, Isabelle Lee has more.
Here's now. Hi, John. At least two US
sanctioned Iran linked ships traveling
[music] through the Strait of Hormuz and
into the Persian Gulf. The ships may
have taken a new route from the UAE
passing between [music] two Iranian
islands as a US blockade of the Strait
enters its fourth day.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent says
the US will not renew the waivers on
Russian and Iranian oil sanctions. The
waivers were initially authorized to
ease surging oil prices pushed higher by
the closure of the Strait of Hormuz.
Global crude up more than 30% [music]
since the start of the war.
And shares of BNY rising after beating
on earnings. The bank posting profit for
the first quarter that topped estimates
as client activity fueled revenue gains.
The company's board authorizing a new
share common [music] repurchase program
of 10 billion dollars. That's your
Bloomberg Brief, John.
Isabelle, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, a
diplomatic deadlock.
I saw some reporting, again bad
reporting this morning that we had
formally requested an extension of the
ceasefire. That is not true at this
moment. We feel good about the prospects
of a deal that we are continuing to see
how these conversations go.
Turn on the sprinklers. Send out the
lawn mowers. Bad reporting.
>> [laughter]
>> I mean, I felt bad for Tyler this
morning. That she had the
lawn mower and the sprinklers all at
once. Not even 7:00 a.m. We'll catch you
with Tyler Kendall in just a little bit.
Up next, Doug Rediker [music] of
International Capital Strategies live
from Washington this morning. Good
morning.
Equity futures right [music] now just
about positive by a tenth of 1%.
All-time highs at the close in
yesterday's session and looking to add
some weight to the rally on the Nasdaq,
11 days of gains, the longest winning
run since December 2019. Bramo, what
have you got? Day 12? How long? Day 12,
so day 12 would be 20 since 2017. Past
that, 14 days. That would take us back
to 2014.
>> Crazy. Some of the numbers out there. I
was looking at semis. I was looking at
the semi [music] index, Philadelphia
semi index up by more than 20% this
month, the biggest monthly gain since
2002.
I checked it once. I had to check it
twice. It's been explosive over the last
two weeks.
>> And it explains [music] the cost feed,
it explains the Taiwan semiconductor.
The reason why the Taiwan stock index
now is a greater market valuation than
the UK one. [music] So, you can get a
sense of how the tides have kind of
shifted under the hood as a result of a
very bespoke tech rally [music]
that is really changed the dynamic.
>> tell you something about tech or about
the UK stock market?
>> were going to say that and I think that
it's a pull push, you know, it's pushing
on an open door. Okay, let's not beat up
Europe too much this morning, okay?
>> to me? I get all these messages about
being anti-European. I love Europe. I
just haven't been big fans of European
[music] policy. There's a major
difference between between the two
things. I'm a massive,
>> [music]
>> massive fan of Europe anyway, okay?
Honest advice this morning, a diplomatic
deadlock.
I saw some reporting, again bad
reporting this morning that we had
formally requested an extension of the
ceasefire. That is not true at this
moment. We feel good about the prospects
of a deal that and it's obviously in the
best interest of Iran to meet the
president's demands. I think he's made
his red lines in these negotiations very
clear to the other side and so we are
continuing to see how these
conversations go.
So, here's the latest this morning. The
US and Iran considering a [music]
ceasefire extension with key sticking
points standing in the way of a
longer-term peace deal. With the latest
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us for
more. Hi, Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this
White House maintains that they feel
positive about the prospects of a
potential deal but still no confirmation
on an extension or another round of
in-person negotiations ahead of
Tuesday's deadline. Though the White
House press secretary Caroline Levitt
went on to allude to the fact that
Pakistan would in fact hold the next
round of in-person talks if and when
they happen. Now, Bloomberg News is
reporting that a two-week pushback of
that deadline could be on the table in a
bid to give negotiators at the technical
level more time to make progress on
those big sticking points before senior
officials meet face-to-face again cuz at
least publicly the two sides still feel
very far apart including Iran's foreign
minister saying yesterday that Iran's
use of nuclear energy can never be
revoked testing the at least public red
line from this White House about no
nuclear enrichment. Then of course, the
issue of reopening the Strait of Hormuz
as data analyzed by Bloomberg News
indicates that at least two Iranian
tankers have appeared to make their way
through the Strait and into the Persian
Gulf. CENTCOM gave an update last night
saying that no ships have made it
through the blockade and that at least
nine vessels obeyed US instructions to
turn around. We'll likely get an update
on this part of the operation later this
morning within the hour, 8:00 a.m.
Eastern. We're expecting Pentagon
officials to brief. But John, as you
will know, it's not just the Strait,
it's not just the nuclear program. This
White House was hoping that other issues
would be put on the table including
Iran's support of proxy militia groups.
The White House maintains that Israel's
front against the Iranian backed
militant group Hezbollah is an entirely
separate operation. But President Trump
did announce last night that Israeli and
Lebanese leaders would be meeting today
in a bid to disarm that organization.
Tyler Kendall at the White House this
morning. Tyler, thank you. Douglas
Rediker of International Capital
Strategies says the following, "It's
hard to see how the US does not emerge
as a less powerful country as a result
of this war and from other recent Trump
policies." Doug joins us now for more.
Doug, good morning. Good to see you.
Morning. Good to see you.
>> We've talked about all these different
disconnects. The global audience for the
IMF World Bank spring meetings, is there
a divide in your opinion between what
you hear from the US delegates and what
we're hearing maybe internationally?
Yeah, I think that first of all, there's
a divide between policy makers and the
markets and then within the markets,
there's a divide between the US investor
group which generally sees things
through a positive prism.
To some degree, they're believing what
they're hearing out of the White House.
They're believing the rhetoric, the
listen to what I say, don't watch what I
do kind of mantra and the rest of the
world and certainly the policy makers
are a little more skeptical, a little
more what I would say realistic about
what's going on and a lot more wary. So,
what do you make of financial markets
buying the dip?
Well, look, I've long said buying the
dip has been a great strategy as long as
you've had two things. One, what is a
effectively a Fed or a central bank put
and another is the the expectation that
you're going to return to normal.
And certainly the Fed put,
um I mean, central banks still remain a
ballast as best as they can. Though I
would argue that President Trump's
you know, shots at J. Powell and the
independence of the Fed take sort of a
a bit of an edge off of that. But the
idea that we're going to always return
to normal is one that I would say right
now is being called into some question.
Is the current situation globally, Iran
and more, Trump writ large, going to
allow the system to return to normal or
is it going to be a new normal? Isn't
there a Trump put though, given the fact
that we've have seen him on a jawbone
the financial markets and the oil
markets? Isn't there doesn't that just
prove that there is a threshold he's
unwilling to take? So, there's always
this narrative I'd call it overly
simplistic to say, "Well, Trump looks at
the stock market and therefore when the
market corrects too much, he changes
policy." That assumes that the policy
damage that's done along the way is just
a temporary thing and it goes away and
we'll just ignore that and go back to
normal. And so, my premise is is even a
Trump correction that allows the markets
to say, "Woo, I can exhale. I'm going to
go back to normal." Is that always going
to be the case? I mean, my big concern,
I've got a lot of big concerns, but my
big concern is if there were to be a
global financial crisis, right? I'm not
saying there's going to be, but you
know, you can't rule it out. Is the
world ready for a response function
where the US has affirmatively said,
"We're not taking the leadership role
anymore."?
Is everybody ready for that? You know,
the US is in charge is the head of the
G20 this year. Does anybody even
remember the G20 exists?
Right? Can I ask you though, do people
seem more pessimistic right now than
they did a year ago or do they seem just
the same or more optimistic? A year ago
was right around the time of liberation
day.
>> Correct. So, that was mass panic about,
"Oh my god, he's serious. What does this
mean?" I think that the
the volatility born of the Trump
administration is now something
everybody expects. So, more or less
pessimistic, I think they were more
shocked then and more pessimistic now,
but I'm not sure pessimism or shock is a
better or a worse characteristic to
describe the mood of the meeting.
>> We had a test run. We had a global
crisis in 2020 and President Trump was
the president then. What's your
assessment of how things worked out back
then?
Well, I I mean, the 2020 shock
uh was certainly at a time when Trump
was causing uncertainty in American
leadership, but it was nowhere near
where it is right now. I think Trump 1.0
people look back on, I mean, it's funny.
There are a lot of Democrats who look
back on the George W. Bush
administration as the good old days now,
right? Everybody goes to Dick Cheney's
funeral and salutes him. That was not
the case at the time. I think now
there's a lot of revisionist history
going on and they look back at Trump 1.0
and go, "Well, it wasn't so bad." Um are
you suggesting Democrats have figured
out they need to stop pushing
Republicans further to the right?
>> No, I don't think Democrats have figured
out it.
>> trying that out there, all right. Um I I
think [laughter] I think in general
though, I think that the damage to US
leadership done under the Trump
administration 1.0 is uh qualitatively
different than what's happened now. Both
because Trump has affirmatively said,
"I'm walking away from NATO. I'm walking
away from alliances. I'm walking away
from everything." And at the time, his
aversion to the WTO was big [music]
news.
>> Yeah.
This is different. This is different.
>> This is different. Doug, it's good to
see you. Thanks for being here. Thanks
for having me.
>> Thank you, sir. Doug Rediker there of
International Capital Strategies. Up
next on the program, a must-watch
conversation with the Barclays CEO, C.S.
Venkatakrishnan.
Three-day winning run on the S&P 500, a
record [music] winning run. A record on
the S&P 500 for the first time since
late January and a 10% move plus off
[music] the lows of the last few weeks.
On the S&P, we advance again by close to
a tenth of 1%. On the Nasdaq, an 11-day
winning run, the longest daily winning
streak going back to December 2019. On
the Russell this morning, up by a tenth.
In the bond market at the moment, later
on,
>> [music]
>> 60 minutes from now, jobless claims,
another read on the labor market in
America. Yields on tens at 4.2657.
[music]
Pre-war, that was the upper end of the
trading range for a 10-year
year-to-date. So, we're back to those
kind of levels. At the front end of the
curve, still [music] anchored by Federal
Reserve. The rate riser is not set to go
anywhere anytime soon.
>> Yeah, even if Kevin Warsh gets his
position as Fed chair, I want to just
note that Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent yesterday said that ultimately
he would understand if the Fed needs to
wait on rate cuts, given [music] the
fact that there could be potentially
inflationary pressures. It's almost, you
know, an allowance, a free pass. You can
go a little bit longer without trying to
push on rate cuts, given the fact that
[music] inflation keeps running up.
>> Such an odd situation with the Federal
Reserve. We've been in Washington for
the best part of 24 hours and everyone I
meet [music] with I ask the same
question. Why isn't the president taking
the off-ramp here? He was offered an
off-ramp to allow Chairman Powell to
head to the exit, get his man at the top
of the Federal Reserve board.
Overwhelming support in the Senate to
get him confirmed. Senator Thom Tillis
of North Carolina has already made that
point that the DOJ investigation goes
away, he wants to confirm
>> [music]
>> Kevin Warsh and yet they're not taking
the off-ramp on this situation at all.
>> The president's doubling down on what he
thinks is [music] gross misconduct
because of the renovations. I haven't
been able to get anyone to give me an
exact
a definition or explanation of why he
really does not want to take that
off-ramp, but he'd rather [music] double
down and have that fight, but it might
mean that it's going to be a lot longer
to get his pick at the top of the Fed.
>> And Chairman Powell might be sticking
around [music]
beyond May. Two hours away from the open
and balance, get you some single names
and morning movers. Danny Burger has
more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. Looking at the ADRs of TSMC
this morning, now flipping into negative
territory, down 1.8%
despite the fact they had solid earnings
that beat. They raised revenue guidance
for 30%, said that they still have
supply constraints going into 2027, but
the stock is one that we know had been
doing well. So, some of that already
priced in. Uh meanwhile, PepsiCo also
reporting earnings and they also beat on
both uh revenue and earnings. [music]
They cut prices by about 15%. They were
pushed also by activist investor Elliott
to do so. So, that seemingly helping
them with getting sales done. They also
talked about uh overhauling their
Gatorade brand for more health-conscious
[music]
consumers, lower sugar, more hydration.
That's what the market wants to hear.
Apparently, shares up 1.2%. I'd also be
remiss
if I didn't bring up Allbirds now,
Newbird, or whatever the AI company is
called now. I mean, this thing was crazy
yesterday, surging more than 580%
saying that they're raising $50 million
in a convertible bond sale in order to
become an AI company. William Blair
points out the wildness of this that
usually these kinds of companies need
billions of dollars to undertake this
mission. It's giving kind of 2017 uh tea
company says that they're a blockchain
company to get a bunch of retail dollars
flowing in. Either way, we're undoing
some of it today, down 22%, but again,
John, it was up nearly 600% yesterday.
That's exactly what I thought. Danny,
thank you. I was thinking of the same
thing from back in 2017, 2018 and all
that craziness. My mother-in-law was the
one person that messaged me yesterday
asking if they still make shoes. So,
Ugly shoes. That's like their target
audience right now, right? Yeah, I don't
think she'd wear alone. I was the one
person that raised that question. I
didn't see anyone else ask it and maybe
that was the problem all along for the
company. On our radar this morning,
Alphabet eyeing a massive payday as
SpaceX prepares to go public. An early
investment in Elon Musk's company
positioning the tech giant for a
potential $100 billion windfall at a $2
trillion IPO valuation. Just phenomenal.
Elsewhere, US and Iran eyeing a
ceasefire extension ahead of next week's
deadline. Mediators working through the
main sticking points including the
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz and
the future of Iran's nuclear program.
And finally, the Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent saying the US will not
extend the general licenses on Russian
and Iranian crude.
We will not be renewing the general
license on Russian oil and we will not
be renewing the general license on
Iranian oil.
Because because again, that that was oil
that was on the water prior to March
11th.
>> Right. So, all all that has been used.
The waivers were initially authorized to
ease crude prices. MH pushed higher, of
course, by the closure in Hormuz. So,
within these three, four weeks, we've
seen the administration take a very
different approach. First, it was a lot
of panic it felt like from the White
House about making sure that every
single country that needed access to
products and oil was getting it. So,
that they had these general licenses for
Russia and Iranian oil at sea. What is
interesting though, and the Treasury
Secretary and OFAC will never actually
come out and say it. You have to get
other countries to leak to you. They
could do individual waivers for
individual countries. And what I've been
hearing is a lot of several Asian
countries, especially India, has been
lobbying this administration. So, we
need to be asking, will you do direct
country waivers for certain products?
AKA, can India continue buy, say,
Russian crude? It wouldn't be in a
general license, but in an individual
country waiver. I imagine that is
happening, but they would never confirm
it.
>> The fiscal markets are still super
tight. The warnings are still coming
from the IMF. We caught up with the IMF
Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva
just yesterday. She was warning that the
war's energy shock will take time to
unwind.
If the conflict persists
and oil prices stay high for an extended
period,
we must brace for tough times ahead.
March was a tough month, but April is
likely to be even tougher.
March was a tough month for markets.
April has been absolutely fantastic.
Let's talk about that disconnect now
disconnect now with the Barclays CEO,
C.S. Venkatakrishnan. Venkat, it's good
to see you, sir. Thanks for being here.
Always happy to be here. Thanks for
having me in Washington. It's an uneasy
calm, an uncomfortable calm. These
warnings from the IMF and then I look at
the screens. I look at the Bloomberg
terminal, all-time highs on the S&P, on
the Nasdaq. How do you feel personally
about that disconnect at the moment?
Well, I think that there is a short-term
look-through in the markets, especially
the equity markets, as to the prospects
of both the war ending quickly and
exuberant fair spirits and investments
and IPO calendar and deals. That's what
keeps the stock market going. But in the
background, humming slowly, uh the
long-term consequences potentially of
what's going on in the Middle East, and,
you know, both the inflationary risks it
can create, as well as the growth risks
on the downside, which is what will give
central banks,
um you know, pause as to how they deal
with the situation. I think that I think
some of the liquidity concerns we're
seeing in credit, uh and and, you know,
not everybody in AI is going to be a
winner. These are the things that are
coming in the background. Well, let's
pick out a few of these things. The deal
flow. Yeah. The IPOs we could see this
year. We are potentially going to see
not one, not two, but maybe three of the
biggest IPOs we've ever seen in the
history of financial markets in the US.
Do you see the situation in the Middle
East in any way, shape, or form
potentially upending the deal flow that
we could see, the IPOs through the year
ahead?
Not in a structural sense, because it
could affect timing. You know, do you go
this week or do you go a month later?
But, the companies you're talking about,
let's just take one of them, SpaceX. You
know, these are remarkable companies
that have been built offering important
real products to the global economy. And
and the capital that they will get from
an IPO is meaningful. How real
is this progress? This is something I've
really had to wrestle with over the last
6 months or so. When the Anthropic CEO
comes out every other week and makes
some dire warning about the future for
white-collar work, and now we are all
hearing about mythos, and banks needing
work with [clears throat] it could
potentially be incredibly dangerous for
the financial system. What's your
understanding of what's on offer right
now? Is it part of the IPO roadshow,
just a marketing effort to boost
valuations, or is it the real deal?
Yeah. So, first of all, on the first
part of your question about the impact
on workforce, I think it's really
important for the large corporate
employers like us to be very responsible
in the way in which we use AI both
in terms of it's going to offer deeply
personalized services, but they need to
be uh using proper data and offering
proper products to customers. And then
the second thing is it's not just about
efficiency, it's also about innovation,
and we need to reskill our workers to
make sure that they offer better
products and better service going
forward. That's one side. The second
thing is the pace and the pace of change
with AI and the capabilities that it's
showing are really quite remarkable. So,
we've got to take every conversation
seriously, including the mythos one. Um
and it uh it, you know, we have to
assess what the impact of it is, and we
have to assess how we can protect
ourselves. So, we have to take it
seriously. At this point, can you give a
return on investment tied to the
deployment of artificial intelligence
throughout your ranks, or is that going
to be a sticking point with ongoing
investment at the pace that we have seen
in some of the big tech companies? You
know, it's a very important question,
Lisa. And I think from the corporate
side, I think A, we have to adopt it. B,
we have to invest in the infrastructure
that allows us to adopt it at scale. And
C, and this is the hardest part, we have
to generate true end-to-end use cases
that are high value, that take an old
pro workflow and make it into a new
workflow. That's going to be the hardest
part. I believe value will come. I
believe this is a great and deep
technology. Um and we're going to do it
from the point of what is need needed
and effective. But, I think trying to
put an ROI on any individual project
is a bit of a fool's errand. Which is
part of the reason why people are
derating some of the big tech names that
are investing so heavily because they
can't prove that. A lot of people say
the reason why markets are doing so well
is because of how much liquidity there
is in the market, and one big source of
that liquidity has been money from the
Middle East. How much is that going to
pose a problem going forward given the
fact that this area needs to rebuild and
invest in itself in a different kind of
way going forward?
>> Yeah, and I think I think the Middle
East and Middle Eastern countries are
obviously going to have a reconstruction
bill at the end of this. But, they're
also going to have to rethink their
defense systems, right? Uh for decades
in the future. And so, you would imagine
that some of the investment would be
inward. But, by the way, that's been
happening for many years in the Middle
East as they've been looking to uh
derisk themselves from oil dependence.
Now, oil prices have gone up recently,
but they're looking to broaden and
diversify their economies. The UAE has
done it, Saudi Arabia is looking to do
it. So, there has been more inward
investment in the past few years than
they used to be. But, now, do they offer
a safe place for businesses to actually
go there and offer this diversification
they're after?
Well, I I think I think the the
attractiveness of of UAE, the strength
of the Saudi economy, will continue to
be strong. And I think investors will
appraise those risks that are happening
now, but I think the sooner this war
comes to an end, the easier that
statement is to make.
>> Are all your plans that you had before
the war for
the kingdom and the Gulf for at large
still in place? Like, are you still
looking for that private banking license
in the kingdom? Yes, we absolutely are
looking for a general banking license in
the kingdom, and we're open now opening
our regional headquarters there later
this year. Those plans are in place, and
we remain as committed as ever to the
Middle East. Can we finish on Europe and
how things have changed? I've often been
accused of being anti-European. I
certainly don't feel that way. I feel
very pro-European. I have not been very
pro-European policy over the last
decade. There's clear and evident
mistakes that have been made by leaders
across the continent. Do you see a
change taking place on the continent and
in the UK, a change in policy that would
benefit the economy? Yeah. Well, I
certainly see it in the UK about which I
can speak a little more knowingly. I
think the UK economy, this morning they
had a very strong GDP print, and and if
March is flat,
uh it's going to be a 0.7% uh quarter,
the first quarter, which is quite
strong, right? And and on the on the
better side of things, gilts have
are now in the middle of a range of
trading. Uh but, the UK has continues to
be business-friendly,
invest in its economy in both the
financial sector, technology, and
biotech, is looking to diversify its
energy dependence. I mean, it's going
back to to to some more usage of oil and
natural gas from the North Sea. Um and I
think the UK continues to be an open
economy trading with the rest of the
world.
Europe, on the other hand, has more to
do in creating a more perfect union, if
we can use the Washington term, uh in
terms of certainly its capital markets,
its banking system, and um and and
trade. So, I think more to do in Europe.
I'm pretty optimistic on the UK. Venkat,
appreciate your time, sir. Thank you for
making time for us. Thank you. Thank you
for being here. I know you're in quiet
period, so we can't talk about the
financial results, but best of luck
Thank you.
>> quarter. Thank you, sir. The Barclays
CEO, C.S. Venkatakrishnan, on the Middle
East as a source of capital. Important
question, Brahma, that you brought up.
Will LIV Golf be the first victim of
that source of capital and the financial
support that has come from the kingdom
over the last several years?
>> Well, that's what the reporting is, that
this is literally on a lifeline. So,
basically, without the Saudis, LIV Golf
basically what doesn't exist anymore.
The timing is going to be interesting. I
looked at the LIV Golf schedule. I would
never normally do this, but I checked it
out, and in a few weeks' time, there is
a tournament right here at Trump
National in Washington, D.C. Would you
pull the funding before you were about
to host a tournament at the president's
golf course?
>> It's a good point. I've not heard that
point being made in the last 24 hours.
Plenty of speculation about the collapse
of this golf league. I, for one, don't
have skin in the game, of course, but I
will say this, I want the best players
all playing on the same tour.
And the fact that the likes of Bryson
DeChambeau has been playing somewhere
else and hasn't been playing on the
tour, I think has been a loss for the
golf world over the last several years.
>> So, I didn't understand anything you
just said, but it's clear to see you're
on LIV's side. We were smiling, so I
thought that, you know, you were coming
along for the ride. I I know exactly
what you're talking about. I think that
you're right. I think a lot of people do
because of the memes. I understand
exactly what's been going on now between
PGA and LIV cuz the memes on FinTwit are
fantastic. Okay. Let's move on. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Isabelle Lee has more. Hey, Isabelle.
Hey, John. Europe has 6 or so weeks left
of jet fuel. That's according to the
head of International Energy Agency.
Fatih Birol telling the AP that flight
cancellations could escalate soon if oil
supplies [music] remain locked. He went
on to say that the front line is Asian
countries with Europe and the Americas
to follow.
Blue Owl posting its biggest 2-day gain
since November 2022. This [music] comes
after Pimco reportedly purchased all
$400 of bonds issued by a Blue Owl
private credit fund on Monday. Sources
are telling us here at Bloomberg that
[music] the bonds were relatively sold
at a cheap valuation, and the move
represents a vote of confidence for the
private [music] credit industry.
And the Saudi-backed LIV Golf League
could be on the verge of a major crisis.
The Wall Street Journal reporting that
Saudi [music] Arabia's sovereign wealth
fund may pull almost all the funding
from the league that drew star golfers
away from the PGA tour when it launched
in 2022. For now, LIV's operations are
set to continue as scheduled. And that's
your Bloomberg [music] brief. John.
Hey, Isabelle, thank you. Thank you for
the update. Up next on the program,
confirming Fed chair Kevin Warsh.
I am very optimistic that the Kevin
Warsh will be the chair of the Fed on
time. Let's get to the hearings and see
where we are then.
Up next, we'll catch up with the former
New York Fed president, Bill Dudley,
live from Washington, D.C. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks doing okay, better than okay,
over the last few weeks, that's for
sure. 11-day winning run on the Nasdaq,
on the S&P 500, a record-breaking run, a
move of more than 10% off the recent,
[music] and I stress recent, equity
market low. Equity futures on the S&P up
a 10th of 1% on the Nasdaq up by 0.2.
And as Savannah [music] said this
morning, confirming Fed chair Kevin
Warsh.
I am very confident that the process
that we laid out in terms of Kevin Warsh
becoming the next Fed chair, he's going
to have the hearing on the 21st of this
month. He's a great candidate. We know
that the
Republicans on the Senate Finance or
Senate Banking Committee are aligned in
that, and I am very optimistic that the
Kevin Warsh will be the chair of the Fed
on time. Let's get to the hearings and
see where we are then.
So here's the latest [music] this
morning. The Republican Senator Tom
Tillis telling CNN he's still planning
to block Kevin Warsh's nomination. The
ongoing DOJ probe into Fed chair Jay
Powell clouding the confirmation
process. The former New York Fed
President Bill Dudley joins us now for
more. Bill, welcome. This is a difficult
question to answer, so forgive me. We go
straight to the rumor speculation, but
if you had to guess what the FOMC looks
like in the month of June, what would
you guess it's going to look like?
I assume that someone is going to blink.
Either the Trump administration is going
to withdraw their investigation of the
renovation of the headquarters building,
or Tom Tillis is going to decide that he
will align himself with the Republican
majority in the Senate Banking Committee
and vote to affirm Powell, but we're not
sure. We're not sure. And if they don't,
you know, if Tillis doesn't
withdraw his objection, if the Trump
administration doesn't stop the probe,
then it's very likely that Powell will
stay on as the acting chair. At that
point, Trump has threatened to fire
Powell
as the acting chair, and it's not clear
legally whether he has the authority to
do so. So it's a bit of a mess. It
obviously makes the job for Kevin Warsh
also more difficult, not just because of
delaying,
you know, potentially his
taking over from Powell, but also he's
going to be viewed with quite a bit of
skepticism, I think, by the rest of the
committee. Is he there to do what's
appropriate for the Fed in terms of the
conduct of monetary policy, or is he
there to do the president's bidding?
So Bill, these are important questions,
and we all take seriously the threat to
central bank independence, but I think
we also take comfort from how well
anchored inflation expectations have
been throughout all of this. Do you see
anything on the horizon that might upset
some of that?
Well, inflation expectations are
anchored in part because people think
the Fed will do the right thing. So it's
it's not independent of the Fed's
behavior.
So I think that people would be very,
you know, upset, I think, if
if Powell is somehow fired and it goes
into the courts and it has to be
adjudicated.
Kevin Warsh, I think, is going to have
to win the hearts and minds of the rest
of the Federal Open Market Committee.
I think it's very unlikely that the
Fed's going to cut rates in June. I
think the, you know, with headline
inflation going to be close to 4% on a
year-over-year basis, then I think the
the sentiment is going to be to watch
and wait,
and and in part to ensure that inflation
expectations do stay well anchored.
We saw yesterday Treasury Secretary
Scott Bezant came out and took the heat
off of Kevin Warsh should he become Fed
chair by May 15th as is expected, or at
least scheduled, saying that he would
understand if the Fed needs to wait on
rate cuts even if he ultimately saw
large cuts beyond that. How do you see a
Treasury Treasury Fed accord working
together to shrink the balance sheet and
reshape the way that the Fed controls
rates at the front end and the shape of
the curve?
I don't think they're going to change
how they execute monetary policy. I
think they're going to remain in a
regime where reserves are above the the
supply of reserves are above the demand
for reserves. What I think they're going
to do is make some changes structurally
that reduce the demand for reserves. And
if the demand for reserves can can come
down, then the supply of reserves can
come down and the balance sheet can
shrink. But I think what's probably
being exaggerated a little bit is how
much restraint that will cause.
If you shrink the balance sheet by, say,
a trillion dollars, which is probably
order of magnitude that we're talking
about, it's going to exert very little
real restraint on the economy. So the
idea that balance sheet reduction can
lead to dramatic declines in short-term
rates, I just don't think that's
credible.
I remember back in 2021, you came on the
show and you said that 10-year yields
could be at 5%. You could see Fed funds
rates at 5% given the inflation building
in the system. Right now, do you think
that people are overly sanguine with
just how much inflation is building in
the system as a result of the commodity
shock stemming from the Middle East?
Well, I think that it's correct for the
Fed to think of this as a temporary
shock, that energy prices are probably
going to go back down in the fullness of
time, but I think they're constrained
for two reasons. Number one, we've been
missing the inflation target to the
upside for 5 years in a row. So every
every month and year you stretch that
out, there's more risk to inflation
expectations. And number two, the Fed's
independence is under attack. If the
Fed's independence was was not under
attack, the risk to inflation
expectations would be significantly
lower.
Bill, it's good to see you. Thanks for
your stern conversation there. Bill
Dudley there, the former New York Fed
President, some pretty pointed
pointed opinions on the future of this
central bank and the threats to
independence that we've seen building
from the administration this year.
Right, but as you've pointed out, it's
not actually showing up in financial
markets. Financial markets don't really
feel like there is a threat to
independence. On the other side of that,
is Jay Powell also himself threatening
the independence if he stays on as a
governor until 2028?
>> Dependency issue. Someone messaged me
that yesterday, I forget who, but a
dependency issue. Is the chairman
creating a dependency issue where we
associate central bank independence with
one man on one committee, and how
problematic might that be once the
chairman does step away? Well, it would
be problematic cuz it's a deliberative
body. It's a deliberative body, which is
why people don't think even if Kevin
Warsh was tapped to lower interest
rates, he's going to be able to come in
and do it right away immediately. Right
now, I'm just watching this, and I'm
watching this play out in Polymarket.
And right now you have the lowest chance
ever of Kevin Warsh getting confirmed by
May 15th, which is the time when he
should step in. And right now you have
about, I believe, a 31% chance that Fed
chair Jay Powell will not be on the
Board of Governors by May 30th. So it's
definitely setting up for, you know, the
Rich Housewives of, you know, Washington
D.C.
>> Is that what we're calling it?
>> Or Bachelor, or whatever you want to
call it, but it definitely feels like,
you know, it's sort of one drum over
here and markets are over here saying,
"Tell me when it's over." At what point
do you get sort of a confluence of those
types of policies?
>> ABC should buy that, you know. Not
Bachelor at this year. I think that's
what we're discussing.
Washington D.C. drama.
>> That is actually very good idea.
>> thought about that, have we? Huge news
for networks in this country. Um so
there's no roses. We're not going to
There you go.
>> We should do it at the Federal Reserve.
That would be fun. That would be a
[music] great way to correct that.
Coming up on the program, Franklin
Templeton CEO Jenny Johnson, Michael
Morris of Guggenheim, Jonathan Pingle
[music] of UBS, Mona Mahajan of Edward
Jones. From Washington D.C., the third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
US exceptionalism is not going away.
There is an awful amount of good news
already priced in.
>> Investors have been [music] very
cautious about missing this. The
earnings power are there. Estimates for
cyclical earnings are most likely too
high. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Ann Marie Hoerdern.
Live from the nation's capital this
morning. Good morning, good morning for
our audience worldwide. The third hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
now, and your scores [music] look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P positive
by a 10th of 1%, adding to a three-day
winning streak on [music] the S&P,
adding to a record breaking run, a move
of more than 10% off the equity market
lows of only the end of March. On the
Nasdaq 100 higher over the past 11
sessions. The previous 11 sessions
driving the Nasdaq 100 to a new record
high. Make it day 12, Bramo, and you've
got a winning run we haven't seen for
quite a while.
>> Yeah, if you make it 12, it's we're
going back to 2017, 2014. We're going
[music] back to 2014, and people talk
about how it's unprecedented, the
violence of this move up in terms of how
big this rally has been to new record
highs since a 5 to 10% drawdown. I mean,
that is the fastest kind of recovery
that we've ever seen. [music]
So is it real? Is it a disconnect from
reality? We've been talking about that
all this morning. Or does this highlight
just how much energy there was under the
surface that perhaps wasn't being
appreciated [music]
earlier? Renewed enthusiasm for the tech
trade, particularly here in the United
States, also in South Korea. The Kospi
has had a massive run again for this
month, encouraged by the outlooks from
ASML, [music]
but more so from Taiwan Semi overnight,
lifting their outlooks, supporting the
tech trade. Is it renewed confidence in
that, or just comfort with the situation
[music]
in the Middle East? I would have to say
it's difficult to be comfortable with
the situation in the Middle East. The
fragile ceasefire that might be extended
[music] another 2 weeks. That would take
you into May.
That would mean this has gone on for
more than 2 months. And [music] a key
question would be, if we extend the
ceasefire, are we reopening the Strait
of Hormuz or not? Because at the moment,
[music] we've got a ceasefire, but we
also have a blockade. Yes, we have a
blockade, and at the moment you are not
seeing the normal flows of energy. And I
would even say might have this extension
of a ceasefire. There has been reporting
that they are engaging potentially to
have this extension, but Caroline Levitt
was pretty direct yesterday. She said
all the reporting was false, and there
hasn't been a formal request from the
United States to extend the ceasefire.
So we still [music] have to wait whether
or not this is going to be extended
after April 22nd. And the real question
is, if there's an extension of the
ceasefire, is this just me what we're
seeing right now, which is we're not
seeing a lot of facilities hit and a lot
of drone strikes, etc., or we actually
see the Strait of Hormuz [music] opened?
Even if it becomes open, it's It's going
to be the level of volume where you were
used to. What I'm struck by is the
number of people who are saying even if
the street of her moves is not reopened
in full, they still will see this rally
continuing because you just less bad
news is enough. And I think that that's
telling. You could say, "Okay, that's
complacent and that's just simply the
ignorance of markets."
I'm going to just stick [music] up for
markets here for a hot second because
ultimately the move the world has
changed and certain pockets are not as
dependent on some of the policies and
some of the products coming out of the
Middle East including the US. So, people
are saying if I can game out what the
risks are,
>> [music]
>> I can invest once again because there's
a lot of potential upside.
>> The scariest thing that's happened in
the last month. Do you want to know what
it is? You know exactly what I'm going
to say.
>> I was talking as a representative of the
markets defending markets and being
positive. I'm doom and gloom. I'm doom
and gloom. I'm doom and gloom. The world
order has changed and
Well, so we may never go back.
I'm not.
I'm just not seeing the same kind of
pessimism coming through in the [music]
earnings picture and the adapting and
the adjusting. I feel like Tom Keene has
just been incredible. I don't know what
happened.
I think I'm going to leave. I think I'm
going to leave right now. I think I'm
done. I was constructive on the outlook
and now I'm questioning everything that
I believe. [laughter]
All right, that means you sell
everything that only just happened.
>> Coming up, Franklin Templeton CEO Jenny
Johnson on a record breaking rally.
We'll speak to Michael Morris of
Guggenheim looking ahead to Netflix
earnings and Jonathan Pinker of UPS
breaking down the latest jobs data. We
begin this hour with stocks rising
following a milestone session that saw
the S&P 500 close above 7K and driving
another record high. Franklin Templeton
the CEO Jenny Johnson joins us now for
more. Jenny, good morning and good to
see you here in Washington.
>> Good morning. Great to be here. That
disconnect, I'm sure you've pondered the
same disconnect a million times over the
last month or so. Does it feel
uncomfortable to you?
>> [laughter]
>> Do you take Lisa's view of the world?
Well, first of all, I mean sadly on this
there are winners and losers, right? You
know, if you're an oil exporter, this is
actually pretty good for you, right? And
let's look we're talking about the S&P
500. So, we're talking about US, right?
We we are now energy independent. So,
that's helpful. Uh we've got a really
strong consumer and I can share some
data that I that think is important. And
I think that the um
AI again, it hasn't yet in the
productivity gains that we've seen, none
of that is from AI. That is from tech
that was introduced 20 years ago that
takes time to get in the system. And so,
you're going to continue to see I think
companies be able to increase their
margins because of the and if they have
to increase their price because of the
inputs and we know that with the supply
chain adjustments, they might be able to
actually absorb it because of the
productivity gains they get with AI.
>> So, two points there, one on the
consumer and one on tech. So, let's
split them up. Let's start with the
consumer. What are you seeing? So, it's
interesting. Um so, we have about 280
billion private markets. So, we actually
get, you know, our secondaries gets uh
information on 55,000 private companies
and so they're getting updates. Now,
there's a little bit of a lag on that.
But uh our real estate and our
uh our private credit like our private
credit, they would tell you their middle
markets. That kind of tells you the
I I think the
real core of the economy. don't see any
real increases in delinquencies. So,
they're not seeing stress there and
they're actually seeing them outperform
their projections, right? So, that tells
you that's pretty strong. Uh our real
estate, you know, the only place I'd see
a little bit of weakness is that in some
markets, you're seeing new leases drop
down a little bit. But others you're
seeing it strong. So, the data still
feels like the economy is very strong.
The consumer I was talking to some I was
at a
a session with a bunch of CEOs yesterday
and one of the retail uh firms said,
"Gosh, I have a disconnect between what
the Michigan consumer sentiment is and
what we're seeing." Part of the reason
why might be something that DataTrek
pointed out this morning in a note which
is this data compiler and and data firm
saying that US corporate profits have
been growing faster than the domestic
economy since the year 2000 and they've
been outpacing American workers'
benefits from this economy for that same
period of time and that gap has never
been wider. I mean, at what point are we
seeing a dispersion between corporate
America and the S&P 500 doing
fantastically even though the economy
might not be keeping pace at least not
in the eyes of a lot of different
individuals?
>> Well, I think this is the challenge
anytime you get new technologies are get
introduced. And I always describe
there's a great picture of Wall Street
around the 1900s and there is one car
and all horse and and carriages. 10
years later, it's all horse and car I
mean, it's all cars and one horse and
carriage. And I'm pretty sure the guys
that were maintaining the horses didn't
suddenly become mechanics, right? So,
there's a period of time that you have
to adjust and we're going to have to go
through that. Uh
but I'm an optimist and I look at in
history every time there's a big
technological advance, there is this
prediction about the American or the the
worker is not going to be able to adjust
and they do adjust. And you have to
remember with AI, suddenly the skill
sets that you had to learn if you
couldn't afford a really expensive
education, you were left out. You
couldn't be a programmer. Now, honestly,
the benefit goes to those who are
creative. I think it's really important
that companies not only for their own
benefit, but also for America that we
teach people how to leverage these
tools. So, just to go back to that
analogy, it's fine if there's one car
and lots of horses and buggies. If one
guy driving the car feels pretty happy
and just wants to stay in his lane. It's
another thing if that car just wants to
go run over every everything else which
is sort of the fear of some of the
technology, right? And this is sort of
the fear
>> [laughter]
>> I'm feeling normal again. Well, no. I'll
explain my my bullishness about other
stuff in a in a second. But I'm just
curious, you know, going forward, you
know, what is the fear that the
disruptors and the sort of uh nefarious
element tied to AI and mythos and some
of these cybersecurity issues could
outpace and disrupt some of the
progress?
>> It is it is for sure a risk. Let's talk
about mythos cuz I I know everybody's
kind of worried about it.
>> Nobody wants to talk about it. So,
please talk about Right. So, look,
here's why I ran the technology
department. Before you ever introduced
new software to your environment, you do
what's called an ethical hack. You hire
people to say, "Go in and try to break
into my system." The challenge with that
is that's a one-time event. So, once
it's in, you sort of assume that it's
okay. And believe me, I think you get an
update every week from Microsoft saying,
"Oh, we found a vulnerability. Please,
you know, load in the latest fix."
Imagine in an environment being able to
run an agent full-time that is
constantly trying to find your
vulnerabilities. That is actually going
to be a benefit. Now, you could say,
"Well, you got to race faster than the
bad guys doing it." But if it's always
in your environment and by the way, it's
in your environment. So, the first thing
you have to do is get through all of the
layers. And the way you run technology
security is in layers. Somebody might
get through the first fence. You're
hoping they don't get through the second
fence before they get to something
that's important. And so, if you can run
this all the time, I actually think
that's going to be an advantage to
businesses. It's just scary when you're
first, you know, sort of thinking about
it. And the other thing is once these
things get out there, they do get out
there. There it's hard to contain the
technology programming that's at you
know, so the bad guys will get it
eventually. You hope that we can get
this rolled out to some of the
businesses. They start to build these
agents. They work with, you know,
Anthropic to build them and then I think
that they'll be less vulnerable.
>> Isn't the concern is right now that some
of the adversaries are embedded in it or
could be embedded in it right now at the
starting steps? But that's always the
risk, right? I mean, you know, I think
companies have seen where
um you know, you you have a an employee
that's hired. If you don't do enough
check around it, um you know, I mean, we
had a situation where a employee was
hired as a contractor and they uh you
know, our
our security group found that they were
trying to sell send data out, right? I
mean, that happens all the time. You
have You always say your most vulnerable
is potentially your internal employees.
You got to make sure they're trained and
you have to build a system of layered
security where you're analyzing patterns
and AI gets better at that. You're
analyzing patterns all the time to say
is something changed. And that will tell
you, "Hey, there's an alert. You need to
look at something." And so, the key is
you've got your core data here. You may
not get them catch them on the outside.
You may not catch them here, but you're
going to catch them before they get to
it. And that's the key to any kind of a
security environment. That's also why we
don't like to share our architecture
because it kind of tells people how to
get along. So, anytime the government's
like, "Oh, you need to show all your
security." That's a disaster. You don't
want to do that. You need to keep that
very private. Jenny, there is an
industry dedicated to criticizing US
policy, but much of the innovation that
we're talking about right now is coming
out of the United States. Dare I say is
this the return of US exceptionalism
with these all-time highs in this equity
market or is that too premature? Look at
I I think we haven't lost US
exceptionalism. We are incredible
innovation. And I don't know that any of
us can fully understand why the
ecosystem of Silicon Valley hasn't been
replicated throughout the United States.
Like there's something special about
that. Austin's got a bit. Boston's got a
bit. Like but still Silicon Valley
continues to have it. And honestly in
China, Shenzhen and Hangzhou is both of
those have are pretty exceptional. Um
but it for some reason it's about
universities. It's about capital. It's
about creativity. It creates this
ecosystem. So, I think that you know,
the US is has never lost their
exceptionalism.
>> At times despite policy makers' best
efforts as well, particularly in
California, right?
>> [laughter]
>> Well, that's true. And actually in
fairness, Silicon Valley has gone
through its ups and downs. Although I
recently saw that office space was going
at a new record high. And when you take
a look at some of the housing, talk
about coming back. So, I mean, talk
about the innovation engine there. Real
turnaround. Jenny, this was fun. It's
good to see you. It always is. Thank
you. Jenny Johnson there, the Franklin
Templeton CEO. There has been a briefing
taking place at the Pentagon. We've
heard from the defense secretary, Pete
Hegseth. Let's cross over to Tyler
Kendall, who's been tracking that from
outside the White House. Hey, Tyler.
Hey, John. Well, the briefing is
ongoing, but Secretary Pete Hegseth
started his remarks by renewing a threat
that the US is quote locked and loaded
on a dual-use infrastructure, referring
to the prior option that the US could go
after power plants and bridges that they
argue serve military purposes. However,
Hegseth says that at the moment, the US
military doesn't want to pull that
option and instead pursuing this
blockade in the Strait of Hormuz, which
he called the quote polite option, also
adding that the US is prepared to
maintain it for as long as it takes. He
also noted those renewed economic
pressure points that the US Treasury
Department has been rolling out,
including the Treasury Secretary
yesterday saying that the US is now
working again with Gulf countries to
freeze additional assets of Iranian
leadership in their banking systems.
John, at this point, the headlines are
still coming in, and but Hegseth also
did maintain that the US is public red
line is that Iran cannot have a nuclear
weapon amid questions on how these
negotiations are going to go with the
sides publicly still very far apart.
We'll keep track of that briefing.
Tyler, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Tyler Kendall there from outside of the
White House. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Isabelle Lee has more.
Hey, Isabelle. Hi, John. Alphabet's
early investment in Elon Musk's SpaceX
[music] is positioning the company for a
massive windfall. New filings show
Google owned just over 6% of the rocket
company at the [music] end of last year.
At a targeted $2 trillion IPO valuation,
that stake would top $100 billion.
Charles Schwab shares are falling after
reporting first quarter [music]
earnings. Total new assets jumped nearly
6% from a year ago and topped estimates.
The brokerage had faced headwinds in the
quarter on fears over AI disruption.
And talks are [music] scheduled today
between Israel and Lebanon. According to
an Israeli official, the country's prime
minister and [music] the president of
Lebanon will speak following ambassador
level talks in the US earlier this week.
Those were the first direct discussions
[music]
between the two countries in more than
30 years. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
Isabelle, thank you. More from Isabelle
in about 30 minutes time. I'm next on
the program, the Morning Call's plus
Michael Morris of Guggenheim looking
ahead to Netflix results. From [music]
Washington, DC this morning. Good
morning.
He does that Iran war really matter that
much to the global earnings outlook,
particularly to the earnings outlook of
the S&P? I don't think what we've seen
in the last 11 trading sessions is the
irrational reaction. I think actually
what what was irrational was the reading
sort of the 20% derating and compression
that we've seen in S&P multiples at the
beginning of the war.
I think it's still early, but I give so
much credit to the equity market balls
that just stuck with it, stayed
overweight. Max Kettner of HSBC being
one of them. I think of Barclays and
[music] Ven over there who lifted his
outlook, his price target on the S&P 500
in the middle of a war when crude was
north of $100 a barrel and people were
genuinely [music] freaking out. He was
just looking at earnings expectations
getting better and not worse. And as far
as he was concerned, breaking down the
numbers [music] and saying that's a
reason to be bullish here, not bearish.
That's what's kept this market pretty
anchored. It's what's driven [music]
gains off the low of more than 10% on
the S&P 500. It's why we sit here this
morning at all-time highs and up at
least another 10th of 1% on the S&P.
Yeah, so just to clarify, I'm not
wholesale bullish and I'm not being
completely ignorant of everything that's
going on. It's just that with supply
shock after supply shock, the companies
that have been successful and gotten
[music] bigger have management teams
that are really smart. And you see this
in a consistent way. It doesn't
necessarily reflect underlying strength
necessarily, even if you have an economy
because you're seeing that divide get
wider. But what it is highlighting is
the ability and the resilience to
innovate among some companies. So it
doesn't necessarily represent the
underlying economy. In fact, that gap
again seems to be growing.
>> It's that line from Savita once again,
never underestimate the resilience
[music] of corporate America. That's the
price action. Let's get you some Morning
Calls. First up, Bank of America raising
its price target on Morgan Stanley
saying management's messaging on
resilience should boost [music] investor
confidence. The second call from Raymond
James upgrading Okta to outperform
saying quote a forward waterfall should
lead to growth upside. [music] And
finally, JP Morgan lowering its price
target on Keurig Dr Pepper saying the
stock remains in purgatory. Let's turn
to earnings. Netflix reporting first
quarter results after the closing bell.
Investors looking for insight into the
future of streaming. Geetha Ranganathan
of Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now
for more. Geetha, welcome back. What are
you expecting a little bit later?
Yeah, thank you, John. So the big story
of obviously is that they've dropped the
Warner Brothers Discovery bid and it's
really, you know, business as usual for
Netflix. So they're no longer reporting
subscriber numbers. So the the key
metrics that we watch for and the street
is looking for is really revenue growth.
They're guiding to about 15% revenue
growth for the first quarter, which we
think they'll easily achieve. Uh
remember, they just raised prices in the
US. So that should set them up for a
good uh path to revenue growth for the
rest of the year as well. They've guided
to about 12 to 14%, but we think that
they can up guidance for the full year.
Again, that really just goes back to
prove the underlying, you know,
fundamentals and the strength in those
fundamentals. And then of course, John,
the other big number that we look for is
operating margin and we think there is a
chance that they raise guidance for
operating margin as well as free cash
flow for this year as well.
Geetha, always appreciate your input and
looking forward to breaking down the
results over the next 24 hours. Geetha
Ranganathan there of Bloomberg
Intelligence. Michael Morris of
Guggenheim remaining bullish on the
stock writing we maintain our buy rating
and view the first quarter call as
critical for understanding management's
strategic priorities. Michael will join
us now for more. Michael, welcome back.
Let's get your input on things. How
distracted has this management team been
by the pursuit of another company?
Well, thanks for having me this morning.
I think the answer to that question is
that they have not been terribly
distracted, okay? Clearly, the the
initiative to pursue Warner Brothers
Discovery was a big deal and senior
management was very focused on that, but
the company was consistent throughout
the process and on the conclusion of the
process that this was one of their
initiatives. It was an opportunity. It
was a nice-to-have, not a need-to-have.
And then the balance of the business was
really running as I think you said it,
business as usual and focused on the
areas that they wanted to grow and you
saw some of that come through in the
first quarter with some new content
initiatives and other items, the pricing
action that were really independent of
the bid for Warner Brothers.
I think for some investors, Michael,
they were happy with the outcome of that
pursuit. Happy because this stock is up
I think 9% in just the last 6 days and
had a rally as soon as that news broke
as well. Michael, I'm always interested
in pricing power in general for the
broader consumer and price tolerance.
But for this company specifically, how
much pricing power, Michael, does it
actually have?
I think that there's still runway for
pricing, but the story does get a bit
more complex, right? They are clearly
the bellwether in the industry. They're
at the higher end of the pricing curve
for their premium product in their
mature markets. They did just take a
pretty meaningful price increase
$2 on their highest end product in the
US,
which signals management's confidence in
their ability to to achieve those
pricing driven goals. But when I say
it's complex, it is because they are
growing that advertising supported tier,
which really gives consumers options
with respect to how they compensate the
company for the great and growing amount
of content that they're putting on the
service. And really, as the company
grows the number of users on that
advertising supported tier, the curve
sort of steepens with respect to their
ability to monetize it. So it's not a
one-to-one relationship, but as they
grow their their scale and reach within
their advertising base, they can
actually grow their revenue per user on
that platform. So launching that service
or that element of the service a couple
years ago was really important for their
overall ability to impact that pricing
dynamic in addition to continuing to try
to grow the subscriber base.
Do you think that they're going to try
to to grow their subscriber base
inorganically given the fact that they
were interested in Warner Brothers? Will
there be another suitor potentially in
the near future?
I I'm skeptical that there will be. It's
not something that we've written about
specifically and there's there's nothing
really in the press to indicate that
they are doing something outside of what
they said was that this was a unique
situation, a nice-to-have, not a
need-to-have. So when we look at the key
initiatives for the business right now,
it is increasing their content spend.
They talked about a 10% increase. That
puts them close to $20 of content spend
this year. We're looking at
diversification of how they spend.
They've done more live events. They've
added sports, particularly outside the
US. We do think they're looking at
potentially expanding their NFL
relationship inside the US and different
types of content, right? They have some
of this podcast content. They've
expanded the games and they are
expanding a live partnership in Europe
with in in the French market this year.
That should be rolling out later this
year with TF1. There really could be a
template for more partnerships that they
could do broadly in the future. So the
core business is strong. We think it's
healthy, but we also like the potential
for another gear that's really not yet
in the numbers or expectations for the
business. And I think they can achieve
that without needing to make an
acquisition, but Netflix is sort of
famous for the never-say-never
um approach when when when they give us
some guidelines for how they're looking
to the future.
Just quickly, how long, Michael, before
we get commentary from the likes of
Netflix saying they're lowering their
production costs by using AI.
Well, I think it's is is early as today,
right? So, I think that Netflix has been
very clear that that the use of AI is
going to be part of their process, but
their view is not disruptive to the
creative process. So, they're still very
focused on being creator friendly. I
think not just to be sort of good
corporate citizens, but they do believe
that that
human created content and artistic
content is core to what they put on the
platform. That said, there are
opportunities throughout the process
to enhance the product using AI features
for things that perhaps were more costly
and more time consuming in the past. So,
they made an acquisition during the
quarter
of a business that allows them to do
much more production and post production
related
projects or processes in a more
efficient way. And it's early days, so
we look forward to hearing how the
company expects that to benefit them,
but but it is absolutely part of their
process and we will be hearing more
about that.
Michael, good to see you. Looking
forward to the results a little bit
later. Michael Morris there of
Guggenheim Securities. I've seen some
good content over the past few weeks.
How about you?
>> Netflix? No, from AI. Oh, from AI. Oh,
yeah, AI is all over
all over Twitter. It's amazing.
>> up next. Jobless claims, plus we'll
catch up with Jonathan Pingle
>> [music]
>> of UBS.
Live from Washington, D.C. from the
nation's capital this morning for the
IMF World Bank spring meetings, at least
for the next 24 hours or so.
Temporarily, [music] I had some people
reaching out about the studio. Well,
yes. They prefer the New York studio.
What you mean so that we don't have to
go Hello, how are you?
>> Well, it's okay. It's just a couple more
days. Different flavor. We'll be back in
New York in a couple of days.
>> [laughter]
>> All right? Let's get you some jobless
claims, some data just crossing in just
a moment. Equity futures positive going
into that. We're up by 1/10 of 1%.
[music] With that economic data, Enda
Curran has the numbers for us. Good
morning, Enda.
Yeah, good morning. Jobless claims of
207,000,
Jonathan. That's below actually the
market estimate of 219,000. So, it
speaks to the idea that the employment
market continues to be one of low
hiring, low firing. These numbers lean
into stabilization theme. There can be
volatility, of course, at this time of
year with Easter break and with spring
break, etc. But just having a quick
glance at headlines that I saw coming
out there, it does speak to the idea
that the jobs market is finding feet. I
remember the backdrop was the official
data for the month of March that we had
very strong job gains, broad-based
unemployment rate falling. So, I don't
think these numbers this morning would
necessarily lean into a near-term dovish
case for the Fed.
207 is just absolutely phenomenal. Enda,
I just want to sit on the 207. I know
this is a low hire, low fire
jobs market, but 207k,
can you frame that for us, Enda, for
people that maybe don't follow the labor
market as closely here in the US? Just
how low that number is.
Well, it's historical lows, Jonathan. I
don't have the exact size and scope for
you now, but I know it is historical and
it speaks to the idea that despite, you
know, all of the concerns around the
economy with price pressures, with the
oil shock story, etc., the jobs market
continues to hold up and as long as
that's holding up, it's good for the
consumer. The big question though is
going forward, will we start seeing
impacts from the diesel costs, from the
fertilizer costs, from the gasoline
costs and will that start impacting
business budgets and households and will
they rein in their spending? And by
extension, will we see it hit the labor
market in the months ahead? We don't
know yet because we don't know how the
war will end up, but right here, right
now, by all accounts, the jobs market,
which the Fed said in January, by the
way, is clearly showing signs of
stabilization.
Enda, it's good to see you. Thanks for
breaking it down. We'll catch you a
little bit later. Enda Curran there
breaking down the racist jobs number.
Jobless claims at 207. The estimate was
213. This is down on the previous week
as well. And every time we talk about
jobless claims and continuing claims,
what do they speak to? Low hire, you see
that continuing claims. If you're out of
a job right now, it is hard to get a new
one. Low fire, you see that in initial
jobless claims every single week, Lisa.
We've been talking about the same thing
for a number of weeks now. Going back, I
would say more than a year. Yeah, and on
one hand, some people could say this is
a sign of strength. A lot of people
would say this is a sign of strength.
Just to give you a reference point of
how low it is. From 2010 to 2019, the
average was 306,000
per week. Just to give you a sense of
the initial jobless claims. So, this is
substantially below that. On the flip
side, you could say this is a supply
side issue and this really is a
demographics issue given the fact that
we've actually seen a contraction in the
population for the first time since the
1950s in the United States. So, how much
is this a supply side issue that, you
know, ultimately you need your workers
even though you might not want to
expand, even though there aren't that
many jobs that are prevalent for people
who are out of work. On that point,
Jonathan Pingle of UBS Investment Bank
joins us now for more. Jonathan, good
morning. Good to see you. Good to be
here. Thanks for having
>> the point that Lisa's making is a really
important one. We've been talking about
a series of negative supply shocks. The
more recent one is the energy shock in
the Middle East. The one that's
pertinent to this conversation is the
labor market shock. A massive negative
supply shock. What is the break-even
rate for this jobs market right now?
Well, I mean, so we've got a bunch of
estimates the break-even rate because
you can do it a lot of different ways,
but I mean, we would we would expect a
break-even rate probably about 25 to
50,000 jobs jobs a month. I mean, you
know, we have had big slowdown in the
immigration flows across the southern
border. We've seen an increase in exit
migration. Now, there are a bunch of
open questions for the coming year. This
might be a little in the weeds. You
know, the Trump administration through
September actually was approving legal
immigrant visas at a 600,000 annualized
pace. That had not really fallen off
since the Biden administration. You
know, this year they've tried to put in
place sort of other restrictions on
family reunifications, etc. that could
make that worse, but I think if you look
at the overall array of economic data on
the labor market where we have seen work
weeks pull back, you know, if there
really was like people not showing up
for work, you'd expect existing workers
to work longer hours. So, I do think
there has been a pull back in labor
demand. There's probably been more than
the than the drop in labor supply here,
but you know, we're certainly living in
an environment where we've had really
low job growth and yet the unemployment
rate has basically been stable for the
for the last year. So, this is a very
important question. We've asked it a
number of times over the last 12 months
or so. We've seen a real deceleration in
payrolls, but have we seen a
corresponding increase in labor market
slack?
I over the course of the last year, yes,
we have. I mean, I if I look at things
like whether it's what we're seeing in
people out of the labor force, if I look
at work weeks,
and even the unemployment rate itself
has edged up over the last year, but
it's not in any kind of alarming way for
I think for the FOMC. But I mean, we do
have to think about some of these other
margins of slack. I mean, if the if the
participation rate last month had not
fallen back, the unemployment rate would
be 4.51%
and we'd be having a somewhat different
conversation. Now, I think the other
caveat to that is the extraordinary
volatility we've seen in the labor
market surveys year-to-date. I mean,
nonfarm payroll employment swinging up
160,000, down 133. Some of that due to
the methodological changes. And if you
look at the household survey, you know,
March had the lowest all-time survey
response rate.
So, you basically [clears throat] got,
you know, 40,000 households being
interviewed trying to be representative
of a nation of 334 million, right? So,
so, but smoothing through all of that,
it does look like there's been on net
slack in angst since, you know, sort of
January, February last year. And one of
the key data points that people point to
to represent that is the wage increases
and they've actually slowed and you've
seen the slowest pace of wage increases,
I believe, going back to 2021. And I
just wonder how much power the labor
market has, how much power employees
have to ask for raises in response to
the increase in commodity prices, the
increase in inflation, etc. Well, Lisa,
you were talking about this earlier,
right? I mean, you were talking about
corporate profits and the share. So, you
know, essentially, if you flip that
around, that calculation you were
talking about around, right? You're
talking about sort of labor share of
national income and it's sitting near
all-time lows, you know, because of sort
of the lack of bargaining power. And I
think this goes to the fact that, you
know, even with the reductions in labor
supply, it does not look like an overly
tight labor market. Most FOMC
participants are not even the hawks are
not saying the labor market is a source
of inflationary pressure here. But yeah,
I mean, you've got average hourly
earnings in real terms, you know, below
sort of the expansionary levels
post-GFC. So, you know, it does not look
like we've had some sort of fundamental
shift in bargaining power here. And in a
service sector economy with a lot of
bilateral contracts, low levels of
unionization, I mean, we can sort of see
that nominal wage growth has slowed and
workers don't have a lot of power here.
At what point does this break down? The
idea that you have corporations that are
building their market capitalization and
their profits at a disproportionate
pace, at a record pace relative to the
employees' share of it. At what point
does that create a fundamental problem
for the economy? Well, welcome to
Washington. I mean, like
>> [laughter]
>> We're living We're living in this world
of like gridlock, populism. I mean,
you you've hit the nail on the head
here, Lisa.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay, but what does it have an economic
read-through? I mean, when does it have
something that comes out in Wall Street
earnings, in Wall Street parlance where
people start to care on the economic
side?
>> Well, it this this does come through in
in economic parlance. If you if you if
you if I walked around our floor of
equity analysts at UBS, you know, not
all of them are telling super strong
economy stories. You know, if I you
know, if you look at certain segments of
the consumer remodeling, I mean, you
know, you know, you know, you know, we
can talk about what's happening in in
the AI-related tech stocks which are
driving a lot of the investment and
growth in the economy, but like, you
know, it's not all, you know, puppy dogs
and rainbows out there. When it comes to
gridlock, how do you thinking about the
Fed and May 16th?
Oh, that's a good question. I mean,
you know, it is going to be
unprecedented territory. There is a gap
in the law
that somewhat debatable on what you
think the vacancy act says, but you
know, Chair Powell certainly has staked
out
you know, his his both his intention and
what he thinks is the legal basis to
stay on until Kevin Warsh is confirmed.
You know, I think he will have a fair
amount of support on the committee and
amongst the Republicans in Congress for
that stance. But I think the the real
open question also is is is you know,
whether the Department of Justice probe
gets resolved. But it does look like
we're going to have this gap where Chair
Powell's term ends May 15th
and there's not going to be the nominee
just entering the building.
>> other question is, do you think he stays
on as a governor?
I think he stays on as a governor until
it everything's really fully resolved. I
think that um
you know, from you know, he does have a
fair amount of support on Capitol Hill
and to his credit as his time as chair,
I mean, one of the reasons he's got a
lot of difference from his committee is
because he has spent a lot of hours
pounding the pavement on Capitol Hill
for the sake of the institution and I
think that's bought a certain amount of
goodwill from both parties. So, I think
as long as there's this um
you know, sort of lingering political
risk. I I I think I think he's going to
want to stay on as governor
just in order to you know, maintain that
kind of political economy.
>> making Kevin Warsh's job harder?
I I don't know if it's making Kevin
Warsh's job harder. I think Kevin Warsh
was going to inherit an already
difficult position
with an institution under pressure and
we had had the conversation last time
about what happens when you know,
President Trump's nominee sort of
inherits
you know, sort of inherits the economy
and they and there's an ownership to
that.
But I mean
haven't hit the inflation target 5
years.
You know, I mean the the labor market
doesn't look all that great.
You know, so you know, I think it's a
tough job for the FOMC participants
generally and I think it it'll be tricky
for Kevin Warsh, but I think that would
have been the case for any new Fed Fed
nominee.
>> Final question, which Pingle is winning
this year when it comes to jump guesses?
>> Oh, me, of course. Yeah. You beat the
>> [laughter]
>> you beat the young one. There we go. All
right, Jonathan, good to see you. Thank
you, sir. Jonathan Pingle there of UBS
Investment Bank. Can you imagine that
every Christmas getting around the table
at the Pingle household? You think it's
just Christmas? I thought it was last
weekend. Oh, [laughter] 100%. I think
I think that would be great. Didn't
Junior win last year?
He actually bailed and went to a hedge
fund mid-year. So,
so he's exited the competition. He was
winning for a while. I regained first.
>> So, you've won because he's bailed and
he now works at a hedge fund. Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> That's an important detail.
>> is very important detail.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief standing by with more is
Isabelle Lee. Hi, Isabelle. Hey, John.
So, taking another look at the data we
just got, jobless claims coming in just
slightly below estimates at 207,000 for
last week. The four-week moving average
holding at 209,000.
Continuing claims ticking up slightly
coming in [music] at 1.81 million.
And recapping the Pentagon briefing,
Defense Secretary Pete Buttigieg
maintaining the US will continue to
blockade on Iran for  as long as
it [music] takes. The secretary urging
Tehran to  choose wisely as both
nations weigh extending their temporary
ceasefire [music] and holding additional
peace talks.
The Trump administration is looking to
have US car manufacturers play a larger
role in making weapons.
>> [music]
>> The Wall Street Journal reporting that
the Pentagon approached top executives
at GM and Ford about producing military
supplies.
>> [music]
>> The talks come as US officials grow more
concerned about domestic manufacturing
capacity. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
Isabelle, thank [music] you and thank
you for this morning. Up next on the
program, Mona Mahajan of Edward Jones
with stocks heading for another
record-setting day. Plus, we'll touch
base with Danny. [music] She's got some
morning movers for you. Flutter shares
dropping in the pre-market on a double
downgrade. That stock is down by 2.4%.
[music]
There's a short-term look-through in the
markets, especially the equity markets,
as to the prospects [music] of both the
war ending quickly and exuberant
fearless spirits and investments and IPO
calendar and deals. That's what [music]
keeps the stock market going. But in the
background humming slowly
are the long-term consequences, which is
what will give [music] central banks
um you know, pause as to how they deal
with the situation.
Always great to touch base and catch up
with the Barclays CEO, CS
Venkatakrishnan there. In a quiet
period, so no conversation about the
earnings, but just a feel for some of
the challenges [music]
right now and the opportunities. The
challenge is clearly present in the
Middle East. The opportunity is clearly
present in [music] the United States.
The pipeline, the IPO calendar, things
are really stacking up, Lisa, for the 12
months ahead [music] of us. Talking
about some of the biggest IPOs ever in
the history of the United States, we
could end up seeing something from
[music] Anthropic and then OpenAI. Who's
going to get it first? We can talk about
that. SpaceX. And and frankly, nothing
has derailed that. Right now, all people
are looking for is a sense of things not
getting worse and some [music] cone of
stability as Ted Pick was talking about
in order to get these deals across the
line.
>> laugh. Remember when people used to talk
about unicorns and they were
billion-dollar companies in private
market startups. Cute, right? $2 billion
for SpaceX potentially, which is which
is crazy.
>> [music]
>> These companies have stayed private for
so long because they can, because the
capital is available for them. The
opportunity is there. And now they're
coming public, these valuations, [music]
these market caps just ginormous,
unthinkable more than a decade ago.
>> Yeah, and it transforms the dynamics in
markets. If you think about it, the
overall stock portfolio has actually
been shrinking as
going for as a share of the economy
going forward. Suddenly, it's going to
expand. So, we'll see some interesting
dynamics under the hood, too, as these
companies need to cap that much more
capital going forward.
>> The opening bell just around the corner,
about 43 minutes away. Equity futures
doing okay, up by 0.1%. Let's get you
some single [music] names, some morning
movers. Danny Berger is back with us
with more. Hey, Danny. Hey, John.
Looking at a market that's up today and
so is Hims and Hers. RFK Jr. announcing
that the government was looking at
removing some restrictions around
peptides, [music] specifically category
two restrictions. Basically, what all of
that means is if they were removed, it
would be easier to both prescribe and
sell peptides. Great news for Hims and
Hers because literally just in February,
they acquired a California plant that
produces them. So, shares are up a nice
almost 7 and 1/2%. Elsewhere, some
sell-side action. Bad news for Flutter,
a double downgrade from Citi. In fact,
they lowered their price target by 57%.
[music]
This is a stock that's already lost half
of its value. They warned about greater
competition and especially from
prediction markets and that they might
lower their outlook when they have their
2026 earnings. So, shares are off 2.6%.
[music]
Finally, Pepsico. They were out with
earnings this morning, beat basically
everywhere thanks to lower prices.
They've lowered prices by about 15%.
[music]
Most of their sales though, the real
growth came from international markets.
They've been facing pressure from
Elliott Management. Some of the majority
of gains coming off a little bit.
They're now just up 4/10 of 1% and also
announcing a new and healthier Gatorade
for
health-conscious consumers. Apparently,
[music] lower sugar and more hydration.
So, there you go. Pepsico slightly
higher this morning, John.
We'll take that. Danny, thank you.
Thanks for the update. Looking forward
to the program with Danny and Matt
Miller in about 10,
>> [music]
>> 11 minutes time. A new, healthier,
upgraded Gatorade.
>> Less sugar, but more but more
electrolytes. I think that's a win.
Right? Honestly, I think I think the
Pepsico story is fascinating because
they cut prices and that's one way that
they actually generated revenue because
they raised their prices way too much
and suddenly they had to retrench and
they're gaining it by volume.
Frito-Lay's, it's sort of like they're
bar-belling their approach. Frito-Lay's
and then a healthy energy drink and
somewhere in between they'll get all the
customers.
[music]
>> about the finance and I'm really excited
about the product.
>> Sounds sounds about right. Okay. So, we
[laughter] count you down to the opening
bell. Let's get to the trading diary.
What you need to look for going into the
weekend. One more day and a half still
to go. Going into [music] the closing
bell, we'll be looking ahead to Netflix
results. That comes after the close. On
Friday, the president speaking in
Arizona going into the weekend. An
important one going into the weekend
because on Tuesday, the US-Iran
ceasefire expires. And then there's
this, a Senate confirmation hearing for
Fed chair nominee Kevin Warsh together
with results from [music] United. Scott
Kirby in the hot seat given his interest
reportedly for American Airlines and
Kevin [music] Warsh as well. That Warsh
hearing, must-watch box office on
Capitol Hill.
>> Yeah, especially given the fact that A,
you've got inflationary pressures and B,
I imagine someone's going to ask him,
how would you feel if Jay Powell stayed
on as governor? Could you work with him?
Would you recommend that? How do you
feel about that? And then also, how much
could you potentially cut rates down the
line? And if he says significantly,
echoing what we heard from Scott
Bessent, you could see a real market
reaction. And if he doesn't, you could
also get a reaction, but it would be in
the form of Truth Social.
>> it will be a quite testy hearing,
especially given who Kevin Warsh [music]
is in the Trump orbit. Of course, we all
know that Donald Trump is very close to
his father-in-law, [music] Ronald
Lauder. So, there's going to be I think
a lot of personal questions as well
directed to Kevin Warsh. And then of
course, the big question is, how long
does he just sit in that hearing?
Basically, you can't get a vote out of
committee because of what Senator Tom
Tillis is doing. One to watch over the
next week. The one to watch right now
going into the opening bell, a series of
all-time highs at the close on Wednesday
coming into Thursday on the S&P 500
[music] and on the Nasdaq. Mona Mahajan
of Edward Jones writing fundamentals
remain largely intact potentially
setting the stage for a new market
progress if we see a resolution in the
Iran conflict. I'm pleased to say that
Mona joins us now for more. Mona, do we
need a resolution to the conflict in
Iran? Is that what this rally is all
about, or is it about something else?
You know, it's a good point, John. Look,
I think markets are optimistic,
embracing the fact that we're making
progress towards a resolution. Both
sides seem to be willing to talk to one
another. We're making progress towards a
resolution around the Strait of Hormuz,
but more broadly I'd say markets are, as
we know, forward-looking, and we have a
glimpse of what they're looking at. We
know WTI oil futures, for example,
heading towards $75 back by December
2026 by year-end. And so markets are
pricing in a resolution, at least some
sort of mean reversion. And secondly, we
know markets are looking at earnings
growth, which is pointing to about 18%
year-on-year S&P 500 corporate earnings
growth for 2026. So, really strong on
both fronts. I think that's what markets
are looking at, combination of
fundamentals and some mean reversion in
oil.
Mona, how much is what we're seeing in
terms of earnings expectations and
earnings forecasts right now kind of a
one-off, a perfect confluence of events
that happened and was set up before the
conflict in Iran that could potentially
get disrupted later in the year as you
start to see some of the inflationary
ramifications?
Yeah, it's an interesting point because
of course part of the upward revisions
in earnings is coming from the energy
sector, which of course is benefiting
from higher oil prices. The other big
part of the earning story has been tech
and tech CapEx spending in particular.
We've seen upgrades in the tech earning
sector
driven by the AI CapEx buildout. And so
of course to the extent that that
continues will drive earnings, but if
that does start to moderate at least the
pace of gain start to slow in the year
ahead, we could see earnings growth
start to moderate as well. But we do
think overall the consumer has remained
intact. And in fact, what's interesting
we think from both a labor market story
and an inflation story,
labor market we are seeing signs of
resilience. We saw that in the last jobs
report. Of course, we'll see how that
trend plays out in the months ahead. But
to us the inflation story has been
particularly notable. We haven't yet
seen and we've even gotten March numbers
where WTI and oil prices were elevated.
We haven't yet seen a meaningful
acceleration beyond forecast in
inflation and in fact core inflation
seems to be moderating. So to us that's
a good margin story for for corporations
ahead as well.
Mona, does it make sense that the
Russell 2000 is 0.2% away from all-time
highs and the Magnificent Seven really
isn't close to all-time highs or is it
much further away from all-time highs?
Yeah, you know, the small-cap story is
certainly interesting. And we know when
we started the year, there was this
theme of broadening of market leadership
and we saw mid-cap and small-cap stocks
perform. We saw cyclical and value
sectors start to take some leadership.
There was a bit of pause and cooling in
that as the Iran conflict played out.
But what we're seeing now as we're
heading towards potentially some easing
in that conflict, that story has started
to reassert itself and that broadening
story is starting to come back to
fruition. And we do think small-cap and
and we like the mid-cap story, but both
of those will benefit as the US economy
potentially stabilizes
and and continues to grow. But also
small-caps in particular are going
through an earnings inflection point.
They've in fact had negative earnings
last 2 years and this year are expected
to have positive double-digit earnings
similar to the broader S&P. So that
inflection point tends to be the point
where small-caps do outperform. And so
if that story holds, we think small-caps
could have a a meaningful upside
this year versus, you know, broader
indexes.
Just an incredible run in the US equity
market. Mona, thanks for your time as
always. Mona Mahajan there of Edward
Jones. The open about about 36 minutes
away. We played this game last week.
It's worth playing again. If I told you
if I told you the Strait of Hormuz would
be all but shut, with hardly any traffic
going through it for 6 weeks plus and
the equity market would be at all-time
highs and the backdrop for that equity
market it were worries about AI
disruption and broader concerns about
private market jitters and a Federal
Reserve that might not be able to reduce
interest rates anytime soon and a
conflict at the top of who's going to
lead the Federal Reserve in the mix as
well and would be sitting here at record
on the S&P 500 and yet here we are.
Yeah, you might actually expect someone
to write a headline like either markets
are done or the oil analysts are, which
is exactly what we got from Neil Dutta
earlier today because ultimately it does
seem like there is a disconnect right
now. At the same time, people are saying
this is a more independent economy from
the commodity space, is more energy
independent. And frankly, you're seeing
a lot of strength in other areas as
well. So it is a conflicted and
difficult moment to really reconcile.
>> uncomfortable given what you hear and
see out of Asia and also the fact that
IEA says Europe's about 6 weeks from
potentially not having enough jet fuel
and then they have to start canceling
flights in 6 weeks' time. And to your
point, the Strait of Hormuz is still
closed. I find it very challenging to
look at my screen and see oil, Brent and
WTI under $100 a barrel in this
scenario. The coverage continues from
Washington, D.C. tomorrow at the [music]
IMF World Bank Spring Meetings. We'll
catch up with Ed Yardeni of Yardeni
Research, Rick Reeder of BlackRock,
Joyce Chang of J.P. Morgan and the
former U.S. [music] Deputy National
Security Advisor, Dilip Singh. Looking
forward to that. Live from Washington
this morning. Good morning to all. Thank
you for choosing Bloomberg TV. This
[music]
was Bloomberg Surveillance.